We're kind of seeing everything rally.
Obviously, there's going to be some
pullback. Earnings are strong, but a lot
of that strength is being driven
primarily by tech.
>> We have to look through to the actual
earnings and fundamentals.
>> We still see higher equity markets by
the end of the year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming to
Tuesday, [music]
tech stumble, OpenAI fueling anxiety,
reportedly falling short of growth
expectations. As the diplomatic effort
is stalling, Brent advancing for a
seventh consecutive day.
>> [music]
>> And the door opening for what could be
Fed Chair Jay Powell's last decision.
The two-day meeting begins later this
morning.
>> All right. So, Anne Marie can go through
the politics, and then we'll talk about
how this is really going to be all about
Jay Powell, his future, whether he'll
stay on as a governor. I'm actually
really interested in the economics,
which no one else is right now, because
the Bank of Japan just came out and had
a 6-3 decision, which was split, and I
thought that was really interesting and
highlights just how much a
stagflationary shock really put central
banks in something of a quagmire. So,
does this Federal Reserve think of it
that way? No one will be talking about
that. Absolutely, that will be on the
back burner. Will not make the
headlines. Instead, it'll be the future
of [music] Jay Powell.
>> Well, it should be the future of Jay
Powell, because we need to know, because
not only is it just a matter of is it
going to be some sort of shadow Fed
chair if he sticks around and hovers
around Kevin Warsh, but also, if he does
decide to leave, that opens up a
governor seat. And do we see someone
like Steve Miron be able to stay on the
Federal Reserve, or does he have to
leave because Jay Powell wants to stay
till 2028?
>> They're all questions we can explore
throughout this morning. There's a few
things in the equity market we need to
touch on. Oracle down by close to 5%.
Equity futures on the Nasdaq a little
bit softer, lights are negative. Why?
This from the Wall Street Journal on
OpenAI missing its own targets for
users,
>> [music]
>> for revenue growth, and the CFO going to
read this paragraph verbatim for you.
Sarah Friar has told other company
leaders that she is worried the company
might not be able to pay for future
computing contracts if revenue doesn't
grow fast enough. This is incredibly
important because OpenAI was the
linchpin behind almost a trillion
dollars and more than that at one point
in infrastructure pledges to build out
what they thought was going to be the
ecosystem for the next great thing.
Well, it turns out they're losing market
share to Gemini in terms of defection
[music] for subscribers. They also have
seen defection to Anthropic when it
comes to coding and some of the more
technical aspects of their business. And
so suddenly this raises this issue not
only for the likes of OpenAI, but also
for SoftBank, also for CoreWeave, also
for Oracle. And you see the shares of
all of those companies down in the
premarket trading. Tough week as well
for the company cuz Elon Musk, of
course, trial begins when it comes to
OpenAI. So a tough week for Sam [music]
Altman. On top of that in the story, not
just are they missing internal targets.
And you have to think internal targets.
You make those internal targets thinking
you could clear that bar and maybe in
more some. Also in the Wall Street
Journal, the CFO has expressed
reservations about [music] its plans to
go public by the end of this year
because of what is going on internally.
>> This company has suddenly just had the
largest funding round in Silicon Valley
history, 122
billion dollars. A lot of investors have
thrown a lot of money at this company.
>> What I find amazing is we're at record
highs on the S&P 500, we're at record
highs for the Nasdaq and the big tech
chips. And we've seen Nvidia gain more
than a trillion dollars of market
capitalization [music]
in the past 4 weeks. And we are talking
about the biggest potential black swan
that people were saying earlier this
year, which was what happens if [music]
OpenAI collapses. And there hints of not
it collapsing, but it's not going to
fulfill its promise. And people are
almost shrugging. A couple of companies
have their shares down. But is this a
bigger problem or is this a sort of uh
well, it's too bad, but they'll pick it
back up again.
>> Noise or signal? [music] Equity futures
this morning negative by 0.2% on the
S&P. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with John Stoltzfus of Oppenheimer as AI
fears drag stocks just a little bit
lower. We'll speak to the US Energy
Secretary Chris Wright as pressure
builds in the Middle East. And Samantha
Dato of Goldman Sachs hiking her
year-end crude forecast. We begin this
hour with stocks pulling back as
concerns over AI return. John Stoltzfus
of Oppenheimer with the street's highest
S&P 500 target writing avoid letting the
noise and drama of day-to-day market
activity obfuscate the intermediate and
longer-term signal that can help stocks
climb the proverbial wall of worry. John
joins us now for more. John, good
morning. Good morning.
>> The Oppenheimer report in The Wall
Street Journal, noise or signal? Uh I
would say it's near-term uh signal, but
you want to avoid the noise around it
because it creates drama. Uh anytime you
have a a a an advancement in innovation
uh like AI, you're going to have
disappointments near-term. Uh the
question is how do they get through
that? Where are we headed? And I think
that's very much where intermediate to
long-term investors take advantage of a
times like these.
>> John, distinction between the signal and
the noise. Which component of that
report coming into this morning is
signal? Well, I I would have to say the
signal is is the fact that they they
didn't they didn't meet their own
expectations in essence. That's the
signal. The noise is it it is it's sort
of like in a chicken coop when all of a
sudden the dog comes out and grabs some
eggs.
Everybody goes crazy. [laughter] And
then, you know, in a few minutes the
farmer comes out, he feeds the chickens,
everything's all right, new eggs are
laid. It's like it's life goes on. It's
just sort of You know, I saw that you
were coming up today and I was so
excited cuz I was thinking it's going to
be a therapy session, you know, we're
all going to freak out and say all the
potential worries. You're going to tell
us it's all going to be okay. The world
goes on and markets go up. But I just
wonder if this is highlighting a a
potential fragility as we're record
highs and we're seeing moonshot gains in
the tech stocks. We're seeing on track
for the best uh monthly gain for the S&P
500 tech stocks going back to 2002.
Well, you know, when when I when I look
at it this weekend, we were taking a
look and from March 30th of this year
through the the 27th,
you know, we've got the S&P's up 13%
Infotech is up 24 and 1/2 communication
services up 19.4%
consumer discretionary up 14, but what a
lot of that had to do was the hedge
funds jumped in and did did a play where
they they went long and now they're
going to go probably going to go some of
them will go short or they'll have to
change their positions because they're
highly leveraged, but the overall trend
remains pretty well intact. Wait, hold
on a second. Are you subtly saying that
you expect a downdraft in some of these
names and that it's near term but longer
term you're still bullish you're still
John Stoltzfus?
>> Yeah, and I'd say but that near term
could be the biggest thing is good news
and bad news is discounted so quickly
today versus when I started in 1983. It
used to linger because when you read the
journal, it was it was a newspaper that
was reporting news that was two to three
days old as a result. Today everything
is instantaneous practically with the
digitalization of news flow. And it it
it's not only traders, but intermediate
to long-term investors have learned how
to discount good news and bad news. So
you know, life's uncertain. Uh well, you
can't do anything about it. Live with
it. Embrace the uncertainty. I think
that's what Steve Jobs said when they
came out with the initial
little iPod, you know, that had music on
it. It just it it did you got the
selection that it decided upon. And
I recall reading somewhere it was yeah,
the shuffle and it was embrace the
uncertainty was sort of the pitch. And
eventually they got it so you could
program it and everything. Well, we're
in uncertain times right now when it
comes to the Iran conflict and based off
the reporting from the New York Times
and Wall Street Journal yesterday, the
president doesn't seem doesn't seem to
be buying the Iranian proposal. How much
could we continue to just grind higher
with this impasse?
Well, I think the the idea of of of
grinding higher without interruptions
would be unrealistic, but I do think the
depth of a pullback here will probably
be I can just see the shorts coming at
me right now, right? But it's like it
would be relatively mild compared to
what the drama would imply in the what
what's the longer-term trend? AI is
here. The genie the technology genie
genie comes out of the bottle, it never
goes back in. It continues to morph
going forward. And for all the
uncertainty around it, it does appear
that there's a lot of investment,
there's a lot of smart people behind it.
>> like tech. I've got that, but you also
like discretionary. Yeah. And to Emery's
point, we've not settled the issues in
the Middle East and Brent crude's back
up to 111. WTI's just short of 199 this
morning. Why is this a good environment
for discretionary? Well, for one thing,
it's a it very much disfavored sector,
and with the US consumer, the tendency
is when when whatever either interest
rates are rising or there's there's an
increase in in unemployment numbers,
automatically it's figured that the US
consumer stops shopping. In our
experience, the US consumer when times
are good, they spend like a sailor who'd
been on a long tour of duty, suddenly
finds they got shore leave. When times
are tough, they they buy private label,
they buy used cars versus new cars, they
suddenly buy used clothes and call them
vintage clothes, and you just if they
keep rolling because in the US, the
consumer judges their success in terms
of their job choice and how they live
not only by what they can buy for
themselves, but what they can buy for
their loved ones.
>> You have to have been born here or lived
here for a significant period of time to
have a real appreciation for American
culture and the structural bias to be
pro-investment, pro-spend for the US
consumer. This is a a consumption-first
economy. When you're feeling sad, you go
buy. When you're feeling happy, you go
buy. When it's a holiday, you go buy.
All of the holidays have special holiday
seasons and you can go out. The
inventory is in the stores 3 months in
advance. At the same time, you do wonder
whether there potentially is a lack of
recognition of the fact that not only
are oil prices higher, but longer-term
oil price expectations are reaching the
highest levels of the contract for
December. And that suddenly changes the
game. I mean, are we boiling the frog?
At least on the margins in parts of the
consumer sector.
>> I I I don't think we we boil the frog. I
don't think that's a nice thing to do.
And and but but the
>> [laughter]
>> but the point is related to that, you've
got to figure that
this stuff it's the tide comes in, the
tide comes out. What you want to watch
for, you want to watch for the tsunamis.
You know, that's what worries you, okay?
But the tsunamis generally don't don't
occur on a regular basis. Uh related to
oil, just think of it. If if John Kerry
had succeeded in in killing the
traditional fossil fuel energy during
the Biden administration, we'd be in
trouble like Europe right now. In
trouble like most of Asia. Instead, we
have more oil where
our biggest problem is that oil is
priced to the world price. So, you know,
even though we've got plenty of oil,
it's like a lot more expensive at the
pump even though I have not owned an
automobile since 1985
cuz I live in the city. John, it's good
to see you. God love you. We love you.
John Stoltzfus of Oppenheimer there on
the bull case for this economy right
now. Data's been good. Retail sales have
been good. Jobless claims were low. But
this economy is absolutely hated by
consumers right now based on not their
consumption trends, but based on what
they're telling us about how they feel.
So, what are they doing? This one is
something to watch. I'm not saying it's
dreadful. It's going to be ugly for the
next several months, the rest of this
year, but something to watch. It came
from Bank of America. Air travel has
slowed substantially, falling below its
24 and 25 levels just in recent days.
So, this is a really recent trend.
Certainly doesn't describe what things
were looking like going into this war,
but just over the past few days, things
have softened just a bit.
>> Yeah, well, prices have gone up about 15
to 20% if you try to book flights, you
can experience that. And what also has
happened is a lot of the airlines have
reduced capacity in addition to try to
increase their profits so that they are
more profitable on the routes they do
fly. So, there is a baked-in decline in
travel that was expected. And do we see
this in other sectors as well?
>> That's a trend to watch, Yuhaira, but
it's a trend. And we'll be talking about
the airlines a few times throughout this
morning. If you're just joining us,
welcome to the program. Equity futures
negative by quarter of 1% on the S&P 500
with an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yuhaira Arnoult has more. Hey, Yuhaira.
Good morning, John.
The White House says President Trump and
his team are discussing Iran's latest
peace offer. Iran is proposing reopening
the Strait of Hormuz in exchange for the
[music] US ending its blockade. Tehran
wants to postpone negotiations over its
nuclear program, as well.
The Bank of Japan holding steady,
leaving its benchmark rate at 3/4 of a
percent. The votes coming in split at
six and three, boosting the odds of a
hike in June. BOJ Governor Ueda saying
it is less likely the central bank will
[music] meet its outlook for the economy
as the war in the Middle East clouds
growth prospects.
And pressure mounting for OpenAI. The
Wall Street Journal reporting the
company failed to meet its own goals for
sales and weekly active [music] users
for ChatGPT. The shortfall is fueling
internal internal fears that OpenAI may
struggle to fund its massive AI
infrastructure spending. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. [music] Yuhaira,
thank you. More from Yuhaira later this
hour. That story from the Journal just
weighing on risk appetite a little bit
this morning. Weighing on single names
like Oracle, that's down 4 to 5%. Equity
futures, you'll notice the Nasdaq
underperforming. It's not just the
equity story on the tech side, also
crude. Brent [music] back to 111 on a
7-day winning streak. Up next, holding
firm on Iran.
The proposal was being discussed. I
don't want to get ahead of the president
or his national security team. What I
will reiterate is that the president's
red lines with respect to Iran have been
made very, very clear. So, what is
happening in the global energy market?
Up next, we'll catch up with the US
energy secretary, Chris Wright, live
from New York City this morning. [music]
Good morning.
Live from New York City, welcome back to
the program. Here's the state of things,
the scores this Tuesday morning. Good
morning to you all. Equity futures
declining, down by a quarter of 1% on
the S&P 500 following 2 days of gains
and back-to-back all-time highs on the
S&P 500. The tech [music] trade starts
to come undone just a little bit, but
relative to the major gains we've seen,
it's nothing. [music]
18 days of gains for chip stocks coming
undone in yesterday's session over that
period again of almost 50%. [music]
Unreal this morning. A wait to the tape.
Let's talk about where it's coming from.
The Nasdaq's down about 0.65%.
Noticeable underperformance there. The
why? We've seen names like Oracle
trading a lot softer. [music] The why?
The Wall Street Journal. OpenAI
reportedly falling short of its own
[music] goals, and they're committed to
a lot of spend. Yeah, this is really
problematic on several fronts. It
depends on kind of nosebleed type of
growth rates in order to justify the
amount of spending that it has committed
to, which is north of a trillion
dollars. And given the fact that it just
had the most expensive funding round in
the history of private companies [music]
of 110 billion dollars. So, again, it
really underscores a question of how
much A, OpenAI has really driven a lot
of the race to solidify some of the data
center capacity, and B, whether they
justify it with respect to what their
output is, or whether they're getting
cannibalized from likes of Gemini, as
well as Anthropic. Ultimately, you're
seeing this on the margins at a couple
of companies, doesn't represent
something bigger. I think that's really
what people are looking for.
>> It's a one-two punch to risk appetite
this morning. That's the first one.
Here's the second. It's in the commodity
market, Brent and WTI. Brent up for
seven consecutive days. Brent crude this
morning 111,
>> [music]
>> and up another 3%.
>> This comes after New York Times and Wall
Street Journal talking about that the
president, according to the journal, is
skeptical of Iran's offer. But then the
New York Times is saying he's just not
satisfied with the offer. And this does
make sense, because for Trump, [music]
really, the hardest red line has been
Iran would not be able to get a nuclear
weapon. So, why, when the US has this
leverage in terms of the blockade?
>> [music]
>> Kepler's saying 12 to 22 days, they are
not going to have enough availability of
storage. I think that means that the
president, why would he make a decision
now? He'd wait.
>> Brent crude 111.55 under Savannah's this
morning, holding firm on Iran.
The proposal was being discussed. I
don't want to get ahead of the president
or his national security team. What I
will reiterate is that the president's
red lines with respect to Iran have been
made very, very clear.
Here's the latest this morning. Brent
climbing back above 111 as President
Trump weighs Iran's latest proposal to
end the war. The Treasury Secretary
Scott Morrison saying the US blockade is
forcing Iran's oil industry to shut,
with gasoline shortages to follow. John
Gus now to discuss. I'm very pleased to
say the US Energy Secretary Chris Wright
joins us for more. Mr. Secretary, you
are in Croatia, I believe. We can talk
about the relationship between the US
and Europe in just a moment. We have to
lead with Iran this morning. Mr.
Secretary, in your mind,
how much storage capacity does Iran have
left? And what's informing that
conclusion at the moment?
Well, look, there's monitoring of
storage tanks at Kharg Island and around
the nation of Iran, but yeah, they don't
have a huge amount of storage capacity
and they've got old reservoirs that are
low pressure, which means it's much more
destructive if they have to shut in
their production.
Kepler, Mr. Secretary, is talking about
12 to 22 days left that Iran has in
terms of storage before they have to
shut in. Do you see the president making
any sort of decision on Iran's proposal
before that time period is up?
Oh, the president's focused on getting
the right deal. That could be
independent of their storage, but
obviously that puts great heat on Iran.
If we can get the right resolution, that
could be tomorrow, that could be 2 weeks
from now, but what the key thing is the
right resolution. Iran, and let me just
put the context again, Iran has roughly
1,000 lb of 60%
enriched uranium. There's no commercial
peaceful use for that. That's bomb
material and that's 10 days, 2 weeks
tops to turn that into highly enriched
uranium for bombs. So, this is a
existential crisis. I'm very proud of
the president to stand up and put an end
to Iran's efforts to get a nuclear bomb.
>> Well, so it doesn't sound like the
president would take this off-ramp from
Iran, which is reopening the Strait of
Hormuz. Obviously, the US blockade would
have to end and then kicking the can
down the road when it comes to talks on
nuclear.
Yes, they
again, the critical outcome here is that
we end the ability for Iran to have a
nuclear weapon. There's many ways that
deal can be structured, but the
compromise will not be made on the
principle no nuclear-armed Iran. We see
gasoline prices on average rising again
this morning. They're above $4 a gallon.
You recently said the administration
plans to do more to bring down US gas
prices. We saw the waiver on the Jones
Act extended. What else are you thinking
about?
Well, you also saw announcements on the
EPA for blending requirements this
summer that allows our refineries to
produce a lot more gasoline.
Unfortunately, a few states foolishly
did not go along with it. So, California
still going to have outrageously high
gas prices. New York state, I don't know
why, also did not go along with the
federal regulations. But, we're doing
everything we can to increase refinery
throughput. American oil production is
at record high. American oil exports to
our allies abroad are at record high.
So, look, we're going through a period
of discomfort to solve a 47-year crisis.
And gasoline prices are still a dollar a
gallon cheaper than they were during the
middle of the Biden administration.
Well, I'm hearing that the
administration is also considering an
export ban on US products. Is that
accurate?
Absolutely not. Absolutely not. Look,
here here I am in Dubrovnik in Croatia
signing multi-billion-dollar deals to
sell American energy exports. That is
the fastest-growing export out of our
country. We're selling American natural
gas, American oil, American jet fuel,
diesel, and gasoline all around the
world. We're not going to stop those
exports. We're going to grow those
exports.
Secretary, how much are you trying to
ameliorate some of the price
considerations in traditional allies of
the United States as this does
potentially drag on for a longer period
of time? I mean, how much is cost a big
part of some of these exports?
Yes, everyone understands, particularly
over here in Central and Eastern Europe,
people understand the existential threat
from Iran. Everybody wants to see that
that the United States successful in
ending Iran's nuclear weapon ambitions.
Nobody likes, of course, high prices in
the short term, but they understand
increased American energy exports,
increased energy addition policies, lean
in to more energy production. That's
what President Trump is all about. We've
got to get away from those Western
European policies of making
intentionally making hydrocarbons
expensive and energy subtraction
policies. The the future of Europe, the
dynamic growth of Europe is going to be
in these Central and Eastern European
nations that lean into that President
Trump's American agenda of more energy,
more economic growth, more opportunities
for citizens. Emery was alluding to this
idea, this idea of potentially having
restrictions on exports, and this has
been deployed before in part because
prices were going up and it increased
the price when we were exporting a
significant part of resources in the
United States. How do you How do you
plan to have exports continue to
increase to US allies while not
necessarily having the ramifications of
much higher prices here?
Because the refinery capacity we have in
the United States now is greater than
all of the consumption in the United
States. If we didn't export our diesel
and jet fuel, we'd have to turn down our
refineries. Who would want to turn down
their refining capacity in today's
world? We want them the the higher
utilization they run, the higher
throughput they run on, the more
efficient they are. They produce more
products, that puts a downward pressure
on prices, not just in the United
States, but for everyone abroad. That's
what America is about, bringing more
energy to the world and pushing prices
down. Mr. Secretary, in your announcing
today Trump peace pipelines, will it be
something that all of our allies in
Europe can get a handle of?
Absolutely. That that this Trump peace
pipeline agenda is to grow the
connection between the nations of
Europe. Where I'm standing right here in
Croatia, these nations were at the end
of Russian Soviet Union energy system.
They were at the behest they were
beholden to Russia. That's not a good
place to be. What we're doing here is
expanding this pipeline network so they
can import oil and natural gas from the
United States and then transport it
among the nations in this region so
their economies can grow and they can
realize lower prices
for their citizens and greater economic
futures. I think the idea of the Trump
peace pipeline
peace pipelines there's many of these
huge will will will announce today a
couple of historic agreements in this
regard. Mr. Secretary, I know you've got
a tight window this morning so thanks
for making time for us. The US energy
secretary there Chris Rye on the
situation for global energy and US
energy doing a ton of heavy lifting.
Yeah, the US is almost an exporter for
the first time ever [music] and this is
as a result of all of those exports that
have been accelerating to meet the
demand that has been left from the lack
of oil supply in the region.
>> Up next we've got some new targets out
for Goldman Sachs. They're looking for
$90 crude on average for the fourth
quarter. We'll talk to Samantha data
Goldman Sachs in just a moment. [music]
Live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Coming off the back of two days of gains
on the S&P 500 back-to-back all-time
highs and pulling back just a little bit
on the S&P this morning. We're down by
2/10 of 1% [music] on the Nasdaq. We're
down by 0.6. A big open AI theme in the
equity market this morning. We'll spend
some time on that later. I just want to
sit on the risk in the Middle East and
just go through some numbers for you. So
that's the equity picture. Here's the
commodity story this morning. Brent and
WTI. [music] Brent crude 7 days of
gains, 111. Up by close to 3%
approaching the closing high since this
war started. The closing high was around
118, so not too far away. So, retesting
[music] those highs are getting
close-ish to doing so. Likewise in the
bond market, by the way. This is
important. 30s, just one basis point
away from the closing high. And the
closing high in the bond market for
yields was only three days before the
closing low for the equity market. So,
this is a strange dynamic at the moment.
So, let's work through it. You've got
bond yields retesting the highs of the
year.
You've got crude doing the same, almost,
not too far away. And you've got
equities 13% off the lows on the S&P
[music] 500. Equities, very disconnected
away from this story. Yeah, and in
particular the technology stocks, which
have been on an absolute tear. They're
best ones going back to 2002 right now
if we hold these gains where they are.
Is this a situation of people closing
their eyes to the reality, or is this a
situation where the US [music] consumer
could keep diverging from the rest of
the world? This is the question that
Stork Kaiser addressed yesterday in a
note where he was saying, "Oil prices
may reach a tipping point from a
long-term blockade." He said the
catalyst for that case is simply time.
And that ultimately is what we keep
looking at. What's the tipping point
[music] for this equity market to pay
attention?
>> not the only story just yet. Just got
these numbers from General Motors. EPS
for the first quarter, adjusted EPS came
at 370. The estimate was 260. The full
year [music] outlook now for adjusted
EPS, they offer a range of 1150 to 1350.
They had seen 11 to 13. So, I see that
as a beat and a raise from General
Motors. Yeah, and some of the headwinds
like tariff costs actually coming in
much lighter than previously expected
[music] at two and a half two and a half
billion dollars versus the three and a
half billion dollars expected. But what
this really does show is ongoing
resilience and profitability even with a
slight miss when it comes to vehicle
sales in the first quarter. Nonetheless,
it's [music] this, it's UPS, it's
Lending Club from yesterday. It's pretty
much all of these consumer-facing names
that we keep seeing that also are
outperforming in tandem with the tech
stocks.
>> is up in the premarket by 1.3% in the
next hour. We'll catch up with the CFO,
Paul Jacobson, of General Motors.
Looking forward to that conversation as
those numbers come in better than
expected. [music]
Let's get you some more single names to
morning movers. Yuhaira has more. Hey,
Yuhaira. Hi, John. Core Weave, Oracle,
and AMD all getting dragged down lower
by that Wall Street Journal report that
OpenAI missed some of its own sales and
growth targets, raising questions about
whether it can keep up with its massive
AI spending. That matters for this
[music] group because Oracle and Core
Weave, of course, are right at the
center of the AI build-out. Both have
deals with OpenAI and AMD is locked into
a massive partnership with OpenAI on the
chip side. Speaking of chips, that
record run we had in the chip sector has
come to an end after yesterday. [music]
We were not able to notch a 19th
straight day of gains on the
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. And
we're seeing some weakness again today.
Some of that [music] maybe having to do
with that Wall Street Journal report on
OpenAI. Sandisk falling 2 and a quarter
percent in the premarket. But make no
mistake, that stock has been on a tear
up more than 350%
year-to-date. [music] And we end on Bed
Bath & Beyond. Those shares soaring up
nearly 35% [music] in the premarket
after it topped revenue estimates and
posted a narrower than expected loss.
But what's really driving this move is
the company just delivered its first
meaningful revenue growth in 19
quarters. John. Yuhaira, thank you. That
word resilience coming up repeatedly
[music] this morning in the equity
market with regards to earnings. General
Motors, Kimberly-Clark as well.
Kimberly-Clark with decent numbers this
morning. A beat from [music] them, too.
Resilience across the board.
>> I'm not sure if Kimberly-Clark though is
going to be a necessarily a positive
signal or forward-leading
>> [music]
>> signal because we keep talking about
whether this is going to be a
pandemic-related shock. And ultimately,
I've actually been spending some time
trying to find out if there's a toilet
paper index to see if maybe [music] the
price has been going up to see if
perhaps that's a forward indicator of
people preparing for supply chain
[music] disruption.
>> one of the households around this table
very long huggies at the moment so.
>> [laughter]
>> That's so cute.
>> That does support that narrative. Well,
you know, that's a good thing to be
long. [music] And I'll write down this
morning President Donald Trump telling
advisors he's not satisfied with Iran's
latest proposal to reopen the Strait of
Hormuz. The administration previously
insisting any deal must include strict
curbs to Tehran's nuclear program.
Elsewhere the Bank of Japan holding its
benchmark interest rate steady. The
split vote boosting the chance for rate
hike in June. The Fed set to announce
its decision tomorrow followed by the
Bank of England and ECB coming up on
Thursday. And finally, one of our top
stories this morning OpenAI failing to
meet its own goals for new user
acquisition and sales fueling fears over
its AI spending. The Wall Street Journal
reporting that CFO Sarah Fryer is
concerned that the company may not be
able to afford future computing needs.
Let's talk about what those spending
commitments are. 1.4 trillion dollars in
AI infrastructure. That's how much
OpenAI has committed to over the past
couple of years. They've increasingly
gone out to customers, to clients, to a
lot of funds saying, "Please give us
money." And plenty of them have,
although Microsoft may be backing away
from some of the terms. SoftBank
recently committed 30 billion dollars to
the latest round of funding. And now you
see SoftBank getting hammered. So again,
we were talking about circular
financing. OpenAI was at the center of a
lot of it and all of a sudden it's
losing share to the likes of Gemini and
the likes of Anthropic. Is this signal
as you said or is this noise?
Increasingly right now it's being
treated as more noise than signal
because it isn't having a broader huge
response in markets just this couple of
select names. That said, does this
indicate that it's a sort of set pool of
of of customers and it's people
cannibalizing from one another? Does and
does the capital expenditure now do
these deals potentially go on the
sidelines or do they just go to
Anthropic and Google Gemini which seem
to be eating OpenAI's lunch? I still
can't believe they set an internal bar
and weren't able to clear it internally
and now the CFO, according to the Wall
Street Journal, is actually concerned
about whether or not they can make their
IPO target this year as well. Taking
down Article, taking down the equity
market just a little bit. Explaining the
underperformance in the Nasdaq so far
this morning. That's one of the big
market drivers this morning. This is the
other one. Crude climbing to a
three-week high with naval blockades
keeping traffic through the Persian Gulf
near zero. Samantha Dart of Goldman
Sachs hiking her fourth-quarter forecast
for Brent and WTI. Writing, "We now
assume a normalization in Gulf exports
by the end of June. The economic risks
are larger than our base case alone."
Suggests Samantha joins us now for more.
Sam, good morning. You just followed,
I'm sure, our conversation with the
energy secretary just moments ago.
What's your understanding of how close
we are to breaching storage capacity in
Iran?
Yeah, it's hard to say that is not
transparent, but it's important to
remember that Iran has gone through
extended periods of time in the past
with very low production. So, it's not
obvious that this alone is a binding
condition for something to really change
fundamentally here. Can they outlast us?
That seems to be the question lots of
people are talking about. We've had a
severe inventory drawdown. You and the
team have been crunching the numbers.
How sustainable is that inventory
drawdown? Because that's really
supportive things globally. It's kept a
lid on prices to some extent. This would
have been a whole lot worse. Yeah, we'll
find out. I mean, we're literally in
unprecedented territory here. Even if
things are normalized starting today,
global inventories are likely to just
dip below the historical lows. So, we
will find out how comfortable markets
are with that. Because the the issue is
we have these global numbers, but the
reality, the physical reality is a bit
more heterogeneous than that and some
places might look tighter than other
places. I think at the end of the day,
the issue is a physical one and right
now, the way that this shows up in the
headlines the most is thousands of
flights cancelled and that seems a
little bit like discretionary demand
being impacted seems like an
inconvenience. I think things will get
more visible and potentially more
serious when we have a real shortage on
the chemical production side because
chemical products are used in 95% of all
manufactured products. Well, this is
actually the key point that a number of
analysts have made and I'm curious to
speak with the GM CFO to see if they're
trying to stockpile ahead of any kind of
lack of whether it's chips or other
supplies that they need to come into
their cars. I mean, how close do you
think that we are to that?
I think we're about a month away from
running out of a lot of feedstock supply
for chemical companies and probably two
to three months away of running out of
chemical products in a lot of regions
that produce it. At least this is what
we've been hearing from industrial users
and sometimes these industrial users are
sitting let's say in Europe, but their
chemical supplier is in Asia and what
they're telling us is our supplier
called us and they said they have two
months of supply. And after that, we
have to cut back our own production. So,
this is how things can get more into
broader supply chains. So, we were
talking earlier about how the longer
this goes on, the longer it takes to
restart everything whether it's
production and whether it's just getting
the ships onto the sea so that they can
make their deliveries. How quickly,
let's say it ended today. Let's say the
Strait of Hormuz was open fully, no
constraints.
How long would it take to restart some
of those supply chains to avoid what you
just laid out? Yeah, so on the chemical
side in particular, what we hear from
our analysts for the region is that we
haven't had a lot of infrastructure
damage, which is good news. On the oil
side, we go back to a pressure issue.
The longer you stay shut down, if you're
not actively investing your
infrastructure, your pressure is not
going to be that great. So, when you try
to restart, your volumes just are slower
to normalize. This we think is the case
more with Iraq, whereas Saudi's going to
ramp up, I think, more quickly. When it
comes to US policy risk, you say it's
not your base case, but you don't rule
out an export ban. The The Energy
Secretary was pretty emphatic. He said,
"Absolutely not that they are studying
that." Is he going to basically regret
those words, maybe, into the midterms?
It's hard to say when prices go up,
political pressure grows. And when we
look at the differential between TI and
Brent, it still suggests that the market
does assign a probability, a non-zero
probability of that happening. So, we
don't think it happens in our base case
because it's not obvious that it helps.
If you curtail exports out of the US,
the margins for the refineries in the US
are going to drop. So, it's not even
clear how much product they will put out
in the market. So,
are products in the US going to get
cheaper or more expensive because we're
not producing enough of it? What
policies would help? We saw the
extension of the waiver for the Jones
Act, which is definitely helping New
York, maybe California. Will they hit
the SPR again?
I think that would help. Uh more SPR SPR
releases, it does help moderate the pace
at which inventories are drawing down.
And I think right now, this matters more
than it did, say, a month ago because a
month ago we had a lot of oil stocked up
on water. So, you could draw down from
that. That's now pretty much gone. So,
now you're drawing from storage on land.
So, it becomes a lot more visible. And
if you're a refinery trying to buy that
oil right then and there, it's scarcer.
So, it more SPR releases, I think, would
help. This is a moving story. I just
want to finish on this. When you say
things like, "We now assume a
normalization of Gulf exports by the end
of June."
What informs that base case for you?
When you look at the calendar, where's
that coming from? Yeah, I think a lot of
that comes from the the developments
we've seen towards, say, a ceasefire and
a headline just not long ago. Now it
seems like longer but not long ago
saying the strait is completely open.
Okay, just to be closed the next day.
But these headlines, what they signal to
us is that there is a desire, there is
an intention to end this thing. It's not
helping either side. So that intention,
and I think this is what keeping risk
premium in broader markets limited to
some extent as well. But that intention
shows that they want to resolve it.
Samantha, I've got to say you're thank
you, Sam. Samantha down there of Goldman
Sachs. That's helping the forward look
look a little bit better than expected.
It's doing nothing to alleviate the
concern in the here and now when it
comes to clearing supply and demand.
>> Yeah, and I keep thinking about what
Helima Croft of RBC had to say, which is
that the fact that it's keeping control
over the long end of the oil curve is
actually creating more of a problem for
the front of the curve because you're
not seeing demand destruction that you
normally would see if prices were
significantly higher. So the normal
reaction function in pricing just isn't
happening leading to more demand which
only increases the front end pressure.
So this really is a difficult and that's
why I keep going back to boiling the
frog. It's not very nice but it does
feel a little bit like that. Brent crude
111. 111.20 We're up by close to 3% this
morning. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohai Ra has more. Hey
Yohai Ra. Hi John. We are seeing GM
shares rising nearly 4% in the
pre-market. The company reporting first
quarter earnings that beat analyst
estimates. GM also raising its full year
guidance following the Supreme Court's
decision to strike down President
Trump's [music] tariffs. Coming up at
7:30 a.m. Eastern GM CFO Paul Jacobson
will be joining John Lisa and Anne
Marie.
Meanwhile, shares of BP also rising up
3% in London after its first quarter
earnings far exceeded estimates. [music]
A surge in oil prices and market turmoil
caused by the Iran war led net income to
more than double.
And the DOJ charging a California man
with trying to kill President Trump over
the weekend. The 31-year-old making
>> [music]
>> his first appearance in federal court
where he was also charged with gun
offenses. The suspect [music] sent a
manifesto to family members that was
included in the charging documents.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohana, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yohana in the next hour. Up next on
the program, supply chains under
pressure.
There may be some fits and starts and
some quick answers that could be
delivered, but once the strait is open,
there is a lot of work to do in the
supply chain. More than likely, what
we'll see is a reset
at some point. Up next, we'll catch up
with Brendan O'Glensky of Barclays from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Just eyeballing [music] this, you'll
notice the gap between the S&P and the
Nasdaq and the underperformance you're
seeing on the Nasdaq 100 this morning.
[music] The Nasdaq is softer, lower
negative by 3/4 of 1%. The Wall Street
Journal out with a report on OpenAI this
morning suggesting, indicating they're
falling short of their [music] own
targets. So, that's Wang on some of the
companies exposed to that in public
markets, the likes of Oracle. And this
was uh the existential threat earlier
this year. What if OpenAI isn't the the
next big thing and you have all of these
big companies that have invested so much
in it? Is this the first sign that
that's the case? Ultimately, we'll have
to see, but right now you can see the
companies that are closest to it seeing
the biggest suppliers.
>> And that's Wang on tech this morning.
Oracle's down by more [music] than 5%.
This is Wang on risk appetite as well.
Crude up again. Brent, seven days of
gains, 111. Under surveillance [music]
this morning, supply chains under
pressure.
For every one day of service disruption,
it takes about three days to catch up.
There may be some fits and starts and
some quick answers that could be
delivered, but once the strait is open,
there is a lot of work to do in the
supply chain. It will take [music] some
time to get these products moving in and
out. So, here's the latest this morning.
UPS shares falling in the pre-market,
down 3%. The company leaving its
full-year guidance unchanged, even after
reporting first-quarter earnings that
beat estimates. Joining us now is
Brandon Oglenski of Barclays. Brandon,
good morning. Good morning, John. Good
to see you. The word that's come up
repeatedly through earning season is
resilience. Do you see that with UPS
this morning? Well, and John, you know,
we've seen actually other freight
companies already report, and we're
seeing a little bit of a positive
inflection across not just the consumer
supply chain, but the importantly the
industrial supply chain. Unfortunately
for UPS though, they're dealing with
something structural within their own
business, which is Amazon, which was a
20% customer of their domestic network
even a year and a half ago, decided
effectively to take half of that
business and insource it into their
network. So, they're still dealing with
those volume declines. I think they're
losing another five points of volume
through June or July of this year.
>> Some might call that idiosyncratic. How
does the situation in Iran right now,
fuel costs, etc., fold into what we're
seeing on the screen this morning?
>> Well, for sure what UPS and FedEx,
because there's a lot of fuel surcharge
revenue here, and actually we think that
revenue probably exceeds the incremental
fuel expense. So, there's a lot of
pricing tailwinds. And for sure UPS's or
goal here to get rid of some of this
Amazon traffic is to increase mix,
increase yield, and hopefully turn the
page on margins longer term. But
unfortunately, there's friction in all
this, and they are a unionized network.
They tried to get rid of I believe
10,000 drivers, and effectively the
Teamsters sued them. They came to an
agreement with the union that said, you
know, maybe we'll let fewer drivers go
on this buyout program that they had.
So, there's just a lot of challenges
when you try to shrink these time
definite networks, especially when
you're a unionized business like UPS. Is
there a signal in the fact that UPS is
increasingly leaned on the lever of
layoffs to try to increase margins to
either shrink capacity or just sort of
right-size to a market that now has a
much greater degree of competition?
Well, it and that's precisely what's
going on here. I mean, you have the
highest cost network is UPS, probably
the least flexible labor just because
they have the union contracts and all
the work rules. And we're not anti-union
by any measure, but FedEx has
effectively an independent contractor
network. Amazon really replicated that
in the last 5 to 10 years. So, you have
Amazon insourcing, which is UPS's
largest customer, and you have FedEx
that's lower cost and arguably higher
service right now than UPS. And I think
their only answer is, can we retreat to
a core base of business-to-business
revenue and small medium business
shippers that maybe pay a little bit
more where we can derive that margin.
But, the problem is as you shrink the
business, your fixed costs don't go down
as fast. So, you ask for more price from
your customers, and your customers say,
well, there's alternatives. I can use
FedEx. So, this might be more of a
structural idiosyncratic, maybe,
type of situation based on the fact that
it has a high union membership and it
has serious competition. On a broader
macro level, some of the airlines have
come out and either reduce their guide
for the full year, given a sense that
they expect demand to really drop off.
Some initial indications, as John was
mentioning earlier, that that's actually
happening. What do you see in terms of
how much consumer demand really is
responding to those higher prices? Well,
I I I know there's a lot of credit card
data out there. Our competitor banks
publish on that, but I think the most
recent that we've heard from all the
airlines is actually things are getting
stronger as we progress through April
and into you know, peak summer travel
months. So, I'm not sure that we're
seeing significant slowdown in the
consumer yet. In fact, I think that's
been accelerating. This was probably the
first that we've heard any inklings that
things are slowing. And the airline
guides coming down, that's really from
an earnings perspective because fuel is
such a significant portion of the cost
structure going from like 30 to 40% of
cost. So, you're definitely going to see
negative earnings revisions. Importantly
though, the revenue revisions have been
very positive, I'd argue. You mentioned
that last time we caught up that things
are getting better. Yes. Not worse
through this war. Is that just a pricing
story or is there something else
happening here? Well, I I mean, we're
firmly of the belief that the consumer's
been on solid footing. It wasn't
shocking to us that retail sales
surprised because we can see it again
maybe more in real time with airline
spending. And in fact, FedEx beat
estimates last quarter. Most other
freight transport names are beating
estimates. So, I know everyone looks at
UPS as kind of the bellwether like, "Oh,
they're one of the largest transports
out there."
But unfortunately again, they're going
through this very difficult process of
trying to shrink their business.
>> something that Lace has talked about a
few times over the last several months?
Do you think the situation in the Middle
East is actually dampening what could
have been a boom in this economy at this
point?
Absolutely. As a transport and airline
analyst, I feel like there's been
something every year where we constantly
are resetting numbers lower. This was
setting up to be a very big year, I
think, of earnings for across our
sectors.
But if anything, I think markets are
reacting cuz if you look at most of our
stocks, maybe apart from some of the
smaller airlines, we're in line with the
S&P if not even outperforming,
especially on the freight side. But jet
fuel and diesel are going up
tremendously. At some point, will it
hit?
Uh I think that is the fear that if this
is a prolonged duration event and again,
we don't have any agreement, I think,
between the parties right now, right?
So, We do not.
If this
is prolonged, then we could see demand
destruction for sure because this is an
input cost, you know, to a lot of the
supply chain and That changes from that
to that, though. And I haven't seen the
latest Axius report which, you know,
usually drops around now, about 90
minutes before the cash open. Well, it's
true. But also, for my thinking, if
Kepler's reporting that Iran is 12 to 22
days before they hit maximum storage
capacity and they have to have
shutdowns, that's basically how much
longer I think this blockade and the
close or straight of Hormuz last because
why would Trump make a move until Iran
feels the maximum economic pressure?
>> Brent, just quickly on jet fuel. Yep.
>> The transatlantic London-New York
corridor. Lisa's talked about this so
much just in the last week when catching
up with the likes of United Airlines.
How close are we to these airlines
needing to make some tough decisions
about the kind of routes they can do and
the kind of can't? Well, again, I think
we talked about this last week, too. At
least from a US carrier perspective, no
one's really worried about the
availability of jet fuel even looking
through peak summer operations. I think
the concern is going to be what is the
price that we're paying.
>> They can get to London. I'm just
wondering if they can get back. Uh
I think the concern is more in Eastern
Europe and and supply shortages there.
But, you know, we've heard from some
European carriers saying that this is a
little bit overblown at the moment. So,
we'll have to wait and see. Brent, it's
good to see you. Thank you, buddy, as
always for an update. Brent again Lensky
of Barclays. Lufthansa are the first one
out with some big numbers and you wonder
if that was masking some other choices
they were trying to make over in
Germany. The bottom line is short-term
short flights are not that profitable,
right? These commuter flights to big
cities
>> ones that are gone. They're the ones
that are gone and they're the ones that
really just can't justify themselves in
terms of the cost. And those are going
to be the first to go all around the
world. The highest margin flights are
the international ones, particularly the
transatlantic ones. Those are not going
to go anywhere because that will
maintain a lot of the profitability of
the airlines. So, this might be a sort
of rationalization of some of the routes
and exactly what actually pays the
bills.
>> Dampening what could have been a boom.
100%.
>> This has been your theme. It's kind of
the story looking at the data and the
earnings.
>> If you see the re-acceleration of
consumer spending, and this is what
people are talking about with the one
big beautiful bill we said really isn't
that baked in. Well, maybe not and
actually we're seeing that come to
fruition. But, there always [music]
seems to be hair on it, doesn't it? And
right now there's a pretty big a
And next on the program, Darragh Cronin
of Wells Fargo,
General Karen Gibson of Academy
Securities, GM CFO Paul Jacobson, and
Seth Carpenter [music]
of Morgan Stanley. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance just around the
corner.
There are questions around the direction
of economic travel.
>> In a market that recognizes there's
going to be an inflation problem.
>> You can't cut rates [music] in a rising
inflation environment.
>> Clearly, the shift has been to a
wait-and-see mode.
>> I'm not calling for more Fed rate cuts
this year. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan [music]
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne Marie
Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores, the price action,
[music] looks like this. Following
back-to-back all-time highs on the S&P
500, pulling back by 2/10 of 1%.
Underperformance on the Nasdaq 100, down
by 0.6. Underperformance for some single
names including Oracle, down by 4 to 5%
in the pre-market [music]
following this from the Wall Street
Journal. OpenAI missing its own targets
for users, for revenue. [music]
The CFO telling other company leaders
she's worried about the company and
their ability to pay for future
computing contracts if revenue isn't
growing fast enough. This is potentially
a massive story for the entire tech
complex given the [music] fact that
OpenAI has committed to spending about
1.4 trillion dollars on infrastructure
projects tied to data centers and
beyond, financed by all sorts of tech
companies and investors who are
adjacent. Does this indicate just simply
a cooling of demand or just fierce
competition or is there something bigger
[music] here that indicates that OpenAI
and the hopes and dreams and all of the
money that went into it
might have been a little bit overblown.
All these tech companies that have
partnerships [music] with Open AI should
be asked this on the earnings call this
week and hopefully we'll find out what
they think about the future of [music]
Open AI. Open AI, which according to the
Wall Street Journal, is losing ground
when it comes to Anthropic as well as
Google Gemini. So much that they're
concerned about the IPO maybe being on
ice this year.
>> The AI story was a pillar of support for
this equity market since the lows of the
end of last month. We've had a 13% rally
off the lows on the S&P [music] 500. The
headwind is coming from crude. It's
still coming this morning. Brent's up
for a seventh consecutive session. Brent
crude this morning topping 111. Higher
by almost 3%.
There is no deal in the Middle East.
>> [music]
>> There is hardly any traffic going
through the Strait of Hormuz and the
tension is just building day by day day
by day.
>> And I know that the first thing or one
of the first things that you do and I do
in the morning is take a look at the
December contract for Brent and you can
see that it's at the highest level so
far on record for this contract at north
of $87. [music]
People aren't just looking at this as a
near-term issue. People are extending
the time frame slowly and slowly and
slowly. At what point will it hit the US
economy? It's hitting other areas,
>> [music]
>> but this is sort of the disconnect that
people feel. Could this be a real supply
chain shock akin to what we saw in 2020
that the market just hasn't wrapped its
head around yet?
>> Trump could have potentially taken this
off-ramp [music] from the Iranians,
which is reopen the Strait of Hormuz,
but kick the can down the road when it
comes to what is going on with Iran's
nuclear ambitions. And [music] it
doesn't sound like the president wants
to take that because that is the hardest
of his red lines.
>> [music]
>> So he's unwilling to take the opening of
the Strait of Hormuz if it means that
Iran basically has a win when it comes
to nuclear, which is why you see oil
prices moving up. And this [music] is
going to get a lot harder for Iran in
the next 3 weeks. This data from Kepler
is key. 12 to 22 days they are going
[music] to hit tank tops and there's
going to be nowhere else for this crude
to go.
>> Let's break up the market, individual
asset classes. Let's start with
commodities. Krammer said it, long-dated
>> [music]
>> contracts making new highs. Check out
the bond market, really stealthy stuff
not being talked about enough. We're
looking at retesting new highs for the
year as well on 30s, so at the long end
[music] of the US curve, on 10s in
Germany, on 10s in the UK. They've got
their own problems, I know, but you're
starting to see that retest again in
yields, in fixed income,
>> [music]
>> just as you see those new highs coming
into crude. At the same time, equities
are 13%
off the lows. We've had a 13% rally off
the lows [music] on the S&P 500. Why?
It's hard to fight the earning story.
When you look at the names coming out
this morning, GM,
Kimberly-Clark, Coca-Cola, just moments
ago.
>> Yeah, and this is just the highlights.
This highlights how multifaceted [music]
this earnings boom really has been. We
talked about the tech giants and how
they're expected to outperform.
Coca-Cola just raising their full-year
forecast for earnings based on the fact
that they're seeing strength in things
like their concentrate sales. They have,
of course, capex that actually is
exceeding expectations. So, the capex
boom, they're underway. Seems demand
just continue even though people are
worried about the consumer spending
backdrop. So,
you know, we we could be gloom and doom,
but then these companies come out and
they seem like things are going really
well given the fact that one after the
other is beating forecast. Coca-Cola
higher by 2.3% [music]
so far in the pre-market. Equity futures
negative by around 2/10 of 1% on the
S&P. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Darrell Cronk [music] of Wells
Fargo as OpenAI fuels some anxiety in
the tech sector. We'll speak to General
Karen Gibson of Academy Securities as
President Trump considers Iran's latest
offer. And the General Motors CFO, Paul
Jacobson, as the automaker posts an
earnings beat. We begin this hour with
stocks pulling back ahead of tomorrow's
tech earnings. Darrell Cronk of Wells
Fargo writing five of the Magnificent 7
report this week and will set the tone
for the balance of the Q1 reporting
season and overall market direction in
the near term. Darrell joins us now for
more. Darrell, welcome to the program.
We heard from the Wall Street Journal
earlier on this morning indicating that
OpenAI are falling falling short of
their own sales targets, their own
growth targets. Daryl, is this a house
of cards and who's exposed?
Well, good morning, John. Um, no, I
don't think it's a house of cards at
all. In fact, when you look at people
are trying to figure out why such an
explosive rally in the month of April,
all you have to do is look at tech and
financials being 45% of the market cap,
almost half of the entire index from a
market cap waiting standpoint, and tech
earnings are growing at 35% for this
quarter, and financial earnings, which
doesn't get the same press that it
probably should, are growing at 22% this
quarter, right? So, even though we know
the quarter is going to be mid uh,
double digits, call it 15% with an
average beat ratio, it probably pushes
you closer to 17-18%.
It's not a house of cards. But, to the
point, right? I think what the markets
are watching intricately and closely is
you don't need to see a deceleration in
CapEx expectations coming from those big
private companies or even the public
companies, you just need to see
indications that, well, maybe that trend
has peaked. And if it's peaked, I think
then you start to reprice some of the
models about what you can expect going
forward.
>> let's break this up cuz this is
important. Let's start with tech. Let's
just park financials and what's
happening in the bond market just for a
moment. I want to come back to that.
But, just for tech alone, let's say you
don't see that continued acceleration in
CapEx from the big spenders, and we see
more sign of that perhaps later this
week. I don't know, but we'll look out
for that tomorrow afternoon. What does
that mean for how this market is priced?
The moves we've seen in chips, in semis
over the past 3 weeks.
Yeah, I think it might have we we might
be a little bit overbought here. So, we
actually uh, came on the show about a
month ago at the same time, beginning of
April, we upgraded tech to an
overweight. We had we had downgraded it
last October. It traded sideways,
upgraded it, and and took the money out
of energy cuz we just thought the energy
stocks had gone too far, too fast,
unsustainable. That's just been one heck
of a trade, a high convexity trade in
the month of April. To us now, it looks
like they're a little bit ahead of
themselves, right? I don't really see a
sustainable trend, though, John, yet
that we're see that peak of CapEx and,
you know, it's starting to roll over.
What I would say, and it what's
interesting is if you look at the
numbers on like engineering and
construction backlogs, they're starting
to build, right? So, the choke point
here may not be the tech companies and
all those wheelbarrows of cash and
willingness to spend, it may be, in
fact, how fast we can actually monetize
and build those data centers and
everything else because of things like
engineering and construction backlogs or
because not getting the energy needed to
power them, all the kind of things that
could become actually down down the road
choke points. Daryl, how much of this
was independent of what we're seeing in
the Middle East and how much do you
expect some of these big tech companies
to talk about how that's adding to some
of these frictions and the time that it
takes to build some of these data
centers and beyond?
Yeah, I think that's real, uh Lisa. I
mean, obviously, it adds to the whole
mix I just talked about. I mean, when
It's interesting when you talk to the
energy companies, the like the refiners
and some of the export companies, they
will tell you in the physical market,
getting access to physical oil is much
more expensive today than even the
financial markets print. So, we we're
talking about this morning, the spread
between WTI and Brent crude, it's back
at $10, basically, which suggests that
there's stress and low shortages or low
inventory out on the global floating
marketplace, right? But, if you talk to
actually refiners, they're telling you,
I have to pay way above even what Brent
prices are to get the physical oil into
the refineries to start to move it
through the the ecosystem, and I think
that's what's got to catch up. There's a
little bit of complacency, you've been
highlighting it all morning, Lisa,
complacency in that forward market, just
like there's some a little bit of
complacency near term in the equity
markets about all of this gets resolved,
all of it moves to the sidelines
quietly, nicely, and easily. By mid-May
here in about 3-4 weeks, you're going to
start to see some material demand
destruction that could push, and I I
emphasize the word could, could push oil
prices back to something like, you know,
120, 125, 130, 135. That's not out of
the cards if we don't get this straight
reopened. Daryl, there are a lot of
different markets that are kind of
intersecting to create the stability or
resilience that we've seen over the past
couple of years. You say that we're
probably uh a bit overbought here.
Jonathan Krinsky was saying that in the
tech sector, when things go parabolic
like they have in semiconductors in
particular, they tend to retrace with
similar vigor. Are you looking at that
type of retracement in the weeks and
months ahead, or are you looking at just
sort of a deflating of the balloon?
Yeah, I I don't think you're going to
get into any long-term sustainable
trend. We didn't downgrade tech, to be
clear, right? We just think the
positioning got a little euphoric.
Obviously, it's been led by those 18
straight days of semiconductor stock
outperformance. But, what's interesting
is you get underneath the surface in
tech, and tech breadth is broadening
across the sector. We all know what was
the trade here kind of 30 days ago,
which was long semis and hardware, short
software, right? That has kind of
flipped, and some of the software names
have come back and started
participating, which I think has been
really key to this tech rally, right?
It's It Yes, it's led by semis and
hardware, but it's not exclusively semis
and hardware like it was maybe 2-3-4
weeks ago. So, you could get some
moderation, but I don't look for any
sustainable downtrend unless something
breaks here, and I I don't see what's
going to break. The earnings are there,
the cash is there, the willingness to
spend is there. Like, it's it's it's a
little bit of a high-convexity trade
still, we think.
>> That was something that's breaking
higher, and I promised you we'd come
back to it. So, yes, you like the
financials. I understand that steep
yield curves underpin some of that call.
That break higher we're seeing again in
yields quite stealthy, not seeing too
many headlines on this at all, but
retesting the highs of the year
on the 30 in America and abroad we're
looking at them 10s in Germany, 10s in
the UK. What do you think's happening
here?
Well, look, it's no secret when you get
out on the long side of the curve, what
it is is it's an interest rate with a
with a term premium, an inflation
premium, and a growth premium stacked on
top of it. That's how you get to
long-term interest rates, whether it's
in the US or internationally. Obviously,
with a $111 crude, those inflation
premiums are going higher. We think they
should. When I was on 30 days ago, I
said, "Look, one of the things that's
under appreciated, we think, in this
market is the long side of the US yield
curve is still too low." If you look at
the 10-year, it's been trading
essentially at 4.3%
back and forth for almost 3 years plus
running now since almost October of '22,
it's just been stuck in a very tight
range. We think those interest rates
need to go higher, right, for the
reasons I just talked about stacking
those premiums. The question becomes,
and it is the the existential question
here, John, is where do those higher
interest rates start to create
indigestion for equity prices and equity
markets, right? We think in the US, it's
somewhere north of probably 460, 475 on
the 10-year. We're not there yet, but we
do think rates need to go higher, and
it's it's exactly what's happening right
now. Darrel, thank you, sir. It's good
to see you. Appreciate the catch-up, the
update. Darrel Cronk that FYI Sanka.
10-year notes this morning, yields up
two basis points, 4.36. Yeah, and you've
got a $44 billion
auction of 7-year notes later today at
1:00 p.m. And do we get the same kind of
indigestion? Yesterday, we saw
short-term notes auctioned.
Just want to say, it does feel like this
is a different kind of sell-off in the
bond market because it's for the right
reasons. It's for the strength that's in
the underlying economy, not necessarily
totally in tandem with oil prices.
Nonetheless, I feel like the theme of
this week is boiling the frog, just
slightly boiling the frog. Which John
Selfa says very disappointed in. He just
thinks it's not very nice to the frog.
Yes, apparently. He was very emotional,
sentimental this morning. The chickens
are going buck buck buck and the frog is
getting upset.
>> Getting upset.
>> If you missed that, don't worry. Yields
are off across the curve this morning.
10-year yields very close to 440, 435
this morning. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more.
Yahara. Hi John, we are seeing UPS
shares falling nearly 3% in the
premarket. The company posting first
quarter earnings that exceeded
expectations, but the courier opted to
leave its financial guidance unchanged.
JetBlue shares meanwhile are slightly
lower in the premarket. The airline
reporting first quarter earnings that
missed analyst estimates. [music]
The company also announcing plans to
slow hiring in the second half of the
year to align with reduced capacity.
[music]
And President Trump welcoming King
Charles to the White House at the start
of his first state visit to the US since
becoming king. The trip comes at a tense
time for UK-US [music] relations with
Trump repeatedly criticizing Prime
Minister Keir Starmer over his stance on
the Iran war. That's your Bloomberg
brief, John. Yahara, thank you. Thanks
for the update. More from Yahara in
about 15 [music] minutes time. Up next
on the program, holding the red line
with Iran.
The proposal was being discussed. I
don't want to get ahead of the president
or his national [music] security team.
What I will reiterate is that the
president's red lines with respect to
Iran
>> [music]
>> have been made very, very clear. Up
next, we'll catch up with General Karen
Gibson of Academy Securities live from
New York City [music] this morning. Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> Here's the tally of the tape this
morning. We're negative by 0.4% on the
S&P 500, on the NASDAQ. Here's your
underperformance [music] down by 0.9.
Story keeps going back to the Wall
Street Journal. Fantastic reporting from
them, by the way, suggesting that
internally over OpenAI, they're falling
short of expectations. The CFO
seems to [music] be worried about the
commitment to spend, and the people
receiving, or will be receiving, should
be receiving some of that [music]
spending trading much lower in the
pre-market this morning.
>> Yeah, this is a name, OpenAI. It is a
private company, but it has a huge
footprint when it comes to the
investments by public companies that
have really thrown their faith behind
this one company. Increasingly, when it
released ChatGPT, it was novel. It
[music] was something that attracted
everyone's attention of the promise of
artificial intelligence. Now we've got
Gemini. Now we've got Anthropic. Now we
have every single company putting in
their own iteration, and it raises
questions about OpenAI's place in the
future.
>> It's the worst of both worlds this
morning on the tech front, on the oil
front, as well. Brent crude out to 111,
pushing 112. High this morning by more
than 3%, as Lisa has indicated. Some of
the longer-dated contracts making new
highs. Big focus on December as we
approach year-end, [music] or at least
start to think about that. The tension
builds, and you see it in crude prices
this morning. Tension building, no
impasse. Base Oh, we're still at an
impasse. There's been no breakthrough,
[music] and base of the reporting
yesterday, the president is very
skeptical and doesn't like this idea the
Iranians are floating, which is we'll
reopen [music] the Strait of Hormuz, but
we're not going to negotiate just yet on
nuclear. That's unacceptable to the
United States.
>> Crude this morning up more than 3% under
surveillance this morning, holding the
red line with Iran.
The proposal was being discussed. I
don't want to get ahead of the president
or his national security team. What I
will reiterate is that the president's
red lines with respect to Iran have been
made very, very clear, not just to the
American public, but also to them, as
well.
I wouldn't say they're considering it. I
would just say that there [music] was a
discussion this morning that I don't
want to get ahead of, and you'll hear
directly from the president, I'm sure,
on topic very soon. So, here's the
latest this morning. President Donald
Trump telling advisers he's not
satisfied with Iran's proposal to reopen
the Strait of Hormuz. Bloomberg's Dana
Kandil has the latest from Washington.
Good morning, Dana.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this
White House still maintains that there
needs to be curbs on Iran's nuclear
capabilities for any sort of deal. In
fact, US Energy Secretary Christopher
Wright was pretty clear on this program
last hour that it's not something that
the administration is willing to
compromise on. The thing is, it doesn't
appear that it's something that Iran is
willing to negotiate on, at least for
now. Instead, the country is proposing
that we could see a potential reopening
of the Strait of Hormuz in exchange for
the US lifting its naval blockade and
maybe making some other concessions,
according to Iranian state media,
including compensation for damages,
assurances that Iran will not be
attacked again, and then a legal
structure for the Strait of Hormuz. But,
as you mentioned, it appears that the
administration is wary of this proposal
because, in large part, a lot of these
points have been non-starters, at least
publicly, for the US. You had Secretary
of State Marco Rubio just yesterday
saying that Iran cannot retain any
control over the Strait, and that the US
isn't going to lift the blockade
because, in large part, it's been such a
big point of leverage. Anne-Marie's
already mentioned that research out from
Kepler, that it appears that they are
estimating that Iran only has about 12
to 22 days left of spare oil storage
capacity. And, John, at this point, new
data analyzed by Bloomberg shows that it
does appear that the first LNG shipment
did make its way through the Strait of
Hormuz, but our own analysts are
cautioning while this may give some
renewed sense of optimism, at this
point, all LNG tankers appear to be
staying put, at least for now. Dana
Kandil with the latest in Washington.
Dana, thank you. Let's extend and build
on this conversation. General Karen
Gibson of Academy Securities writing for
us, "Reopening the Strait is a matter of
urgency, and Iran knows it. I suspect
Iran is gambling it cannot last us here.
General Gibson joins us now for more.
General Gibson, that last line, is there
good reason to believe that Iran can
outlast the US?
Well, I think it's a matter of political
fortitude on our part. And if we want to
achieve the objectives of this campaign,
which were, as we've just heard, to
impose very strict limits on Iran's
ability to gain nuclear weapons, then
this key leverage is something that we
need to sustain. I think it's telling
the actions that Iran is taking right
now and indicating, as you said, that,
you know, the combination of previous
sanctions, of the wartime infrastructure
damage, and now essentially a maritime
blockade, our interdiction efforts, are
probably beginning to take a toll on a
regime that has previously proved very
resilient to economic pressure. Well, if
the Iranians are so resilient, do you
see the United States doing anything
before they reach their maximum capacity
on storage, in the oil industry called
tank tops?
I think that the strategy that we have
now, really this post-kinetic phase of
using our military assets, mutually,
Iran is doing the same thing, to exert
economic pressure on one another, Iran
preventing essentially the flow of
traffic in and out of the strait, and
the US Navy preventing the flow of
traffic in and out of Iranian ports, is
proving to be pretty successful. Again,
I think when we look at Iran's
negotiating strategy at this point,
trying to decouple the economic pressure
from the nuclear discussions. I think
they're seeking economic relief, they
want military relief in terms of
sustaining the ceasefire, and then that
would allow them to postpone, drag out,
or negotiate at least on the nuclear
aspects from a position of a less
coercive position and greater advantage
to them.
>> If Trump cannot open up the Strait of
Hormuz diplomatically, will he do so
with the military?
I think in terms of opening it with the
military, that would really mean
escorting tankers and other vessels as
we've talked about before. It's
certainly a feasible military option,
and I don't think that Iran would be in
a position to really strongly contest
that. They could strike, take potshots
at vessels that are going through, but I
think if they did that, they would be
inviting more of those very punishing
airstrikes that we've levied in the
past.
>> General, what do you make of the
comments we've heard from both the
administration and other analysts that
there really isn't any kind of cohesion
in the Iranian leadership? That there
isn't anyone like the former Ayatollah
who could have come out and said, "This
is the route that we're going to take,
the poison chalice that we're going to
drink, and we're going to come to this
agreement." Do you think that that's an
accurate reflection of things on the
ground?
Well, I certainly think it's fair to say
that the current Ayatollah does lack the
strength of his father to act, you know,
certainly with greater authority. But I
think that the IRGC is really the
Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps,
remains probably pretty cohesive. I've
often heard there are no real moderates
among those who are in charge. It's just
various factions of hardliners, and I'm
not sure we see yet concrete evidence
that there's significant friction within
the Iranian the Islamic Republic's
leadership. General, what do you make of
reports that there is some dissension
from the rank and file that aren't
getting paid because of a lack of cash
coming into the regime?
So, I think that's where we would
probably more likely to see some
friction. Some of the indicators I would
look for would be defections or units
that are no longer willing to carry out
orders. But now that we're not
conducting kinetic operations and Iran
is not responding in kind, that's a
little harder to detect, but those are
some of the indicators I would look for
that would lead me to believe that there
was a growing friction within the
security establishment.
>> General, always appreciate getting some
time with you. Thank you very much,
General Karen Gibson there. Thank you.
Evercore ISI Securities on the latest
situation in the Middle East. Iran is
very good at dragging things out, making
negotiations go on for a long, long
time, stringing people along throughout
political cycles, and looking way beyond
the next three, five years, looking out
decades. But the stakes this time
around, given the pressure, and the
pressure is different, the stakes are a
lot higher. It's potentially holding the
global economy at hostage, and it might
potentially tie the hands a little bit
more on the US side. At the same time,
the stakes are higher in Iran as well,
because ultimately, they could have
their purse strings completely tapped
because their people are willing to
close the Strait of Hormuz and any
shipment of Iranian oil in a way that
just hasn't happened before. This is
where the pressure gets sort of into a
question of who feels it more first to
bring someone to the table.
>> see what the Iranians are doing in terms
of going after empty vessels, trying to
put some oil, which is very difficult,
on a train to China, you can see that
they are very desperate, and it's just a
matter of weeks until they really are
going to run out of that storage
capacity.
>> Making new highs this morning in the oil
market, making new lows in the equity
market. We're down by 0.5% You'll just
notice Microsoft rolling over just a
little bit. Nvidia making new lows for
the session as well. That stock is down
by some 2%. The pressure on tech this
morning, the resilience elsewhere. We'll
catch up with the GM CFO in just a
moment.
>> [music]
>> Tuesday was meant to be a snooze.
Wednesday. Wednesday was the big day in
the financial markets this week. Still
is, [music] but some moves this morning
worthy of exploration. Let's talk about
it. We're down by 0.5% on the S&P. On
the Nasdaq, we're down by one full
percentage point. Attention very much on
that report from the Wall Street Journal
indicating that over OpenAI, there's
some difficulties and they're falling
short of their own target. That's
weighing on things like Oracle, weighing
also on Nvidia. And this is where the
conversation gets a little bit more
compelling for me. Obviously, the read
across is, "Okay, [music]
OpenAI have got all these spend
commitments. What does it mean for the
likes of Oracle?" I'd ask the question
too, what it means for everyone else
who's spending all this money trying to
fight off the OpenAI's of this world.
What does it mean for them as well?
>> Yeah, we've been talking about this over
the past couple of months that OpenAI
was bidding up a lot of data center
space saying, "We want to just secure
the data computes so we can get out
ahead." And that caused the likes of
Meta to come out and actually uh secure
space that they didn't even need in
order to avoid having OpenAI get a hold
of it. Is there sort of a almost a
bubble of existential risks that's
[music] been baked into some of this
data center valuations that needs to
come out as people right-size their
expectations of what's actually needed
in the face of demand that's coming
through, at least according to this
report, slightly less than people
expected. [music]
>> How existential is that existential
risk? That's a story we can talk about
tomorrow. We have had a fantastic run
for the chip sector over the last month.
So, taking some heat, just a little bit
of heat out of a massive rally. Let's
turn to the other reason things are
breaking down a bit in the equity
market. Yields [music] are breaking out.
So, the high of this year on a closing
basis on a 30-year bond, the long bond,
[music] 4.96 this morning, 4.96. So,
retesting the highs for certain parts of
maturities in [music] the yield curve.
Same story over in the UK and Germany as
well, doing the same thing. With this
taking place in crude,
>> [music]
>> Brent, WTI making new highs for this
morning. Brent close to 112, WTI back in
triple digits this morning and higher
[music] by close to 5%.
>> It's just been creeping higher and
higher and higher as we get further and
further away from some sort of
agreement. Yes, you can get a headline.
Maybe Axios will be out with something
in a bit, but either way,
yes, although it's turning into a meme
online. I mean, let's just be honest. It
sort of has been a pretty well
well-timed. That said, I mean, great.
There are talks about talks, but the
market's saying, "Okay, we aren't going
to necessarily take that bait every
single time cuz it hasn't come to
[music] fruition."
>> Talks about talks have been doing a lot
of heavy lifting.
>> Correct. That's for sure. As we count
you down to the opening bell, lots of
stocks always to talk about. Two hours
away from the cash open with some
morning movers. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara. Exactly, John. Lots of earnings
to get through, and we start with GM, a
standout. Shares are up 4.4% after it
posted a beat [music] and a raise. The
driver is strong demand for its pickup
trucks and SUVs, even
>> [music]
>> as gas prices climb. That helping to
offset some weakness in its EV vehicles,
but the big question is how long can
that resilience in its gas-guzzling
vehicles last if gas prices continue to
climb. Moving on to the consumer with
Coca-Cola, shares are up 3 and a quarter
[music] percent after it beat sales
expectations. That's because the company
has been able to push through higher
[music] prices, and shoppers are still
buying their products. But, in a sign of
some stress or maybe the GLP-1 effect,
Coke saying that some of its growth is
due to shoppers buying smaller-sized
[music]
bottles. And we end on UPS, down some 3
and a 3 quarters percent in the
premarket because even though it beat on
earnings, it held its [music] outlook
steady. Compare that with FedEx, which
boosted its outlook, and you get some
disappointed investors. John. [music]
Yahara, thank you. More from Yahara in
just a moment. Let's talk about some
earnings. General Motors reporting
better than expected first quarter
earnings and raising its full-year
guidance. The General Motors CFO, Paul
Jacobson, joins us now for more. Paul,
welcome to the program. The buzzword
this earnings season appears to be
resilient. I think it would be unfair
just to call this resilient. It looks
strong, sir. Paul, where is that
strength coming from?
Well, good morning, John. Thanks thanks
for having us. You know, this quarter
was really strong one for us, but I
think that resiliency word works really
well.
It's something that we've demonstrated
for the last several years, whether it
was the chip crisis or tariffs or
inflation. I think the team's responded
really well, and this quarter was no
exception. When you look at some of the
challenges that we faced around
inventory levels, the go-to-market team
did an outstanding job dealing with the
traffic that we saw in the stores,
which which continued to be strong and
steady and has continued through April.
So, we feel good about the quarter and
you know, we're able to take up our
guidance as a result of the IEPA tariff
accrual that we took in the quarter and
you know, so far it looks like we're
able to handle some of the pressure that
we've seen in inflationary
items
primarily resulting from energy prices.
Well, Paul, let's talk about that. It's
an important topic. Your supply chains
have been battle-tested,
battle-hardened. The pandemic, the
tariffs, and now this. What challenges
are you working through as a team at the
moment?
Well, I think right now obviously the
the team's done a really strong job of
maintaining it through even some of the
DRAM memory chip issues that we saw
in the middle part of last year.
I think a lot of that has calmed down,
but what we're really seeing across the
board right now is inflationary effects
in raw materials, aluminum, steel, just
overall transportation and logistics
costs. We're calling out about $500
million of pressure that we've added to
our forecast for the year. So, despite
our beat, we're not taking up our
guidance by nearly as much as as that
beat. Primarily because we're we're
continuing to adjust the business, but
we feel good that we're a little bit out
of it right now, but we are cautious
about how long this might last. How much
were you able to pass along those extra
costs, Paul, to consumers in the in the
face of already relatively high prices,
but a very strong consumer demand?
Yeah, so we we came into the year
saying that price was only going to be
up by about a half a percent, which
really was the annualization of model
year 26 price increases. We haven't
built any significant price increases
into our models. In fact, what we're
seeing is the industry discounting a
little bit more. There's some
competitive pressure out there, but but
our team is is held up well. I think
when you look at the GM portfolio, we've
really got a vehicle for every consumer
out there. We're known for our trucks
and our SUVs, but we sold over 700,000
vehicles last year with a starting price
of approximately $30,000 or less. So,
we've got that portfolio. The Chevy Trax
is hitting record levels
for us last quarter. So, we feel like
we're we're in a good spot depending on
where the consumer might be. Has there
been any pushback against some of the
large vehicles, the SUVs, the pickups in
the face of higher gasoline prices, or
have you seen no ramifications
whatsoever?
You know, we really haven't seen any
changes. In fact, our light-duty pickup
sales were off about 8% year-over-year
in the quarter.
Like I said, traffic has been strong. If
anything, we probably were a little bit
light on inventory coming into the
quarter because we had such a strong
December and with the weather in January
and so on, we had difficulty making up
those inventory levels. So, we're we're
down quite a bit from where we were a
year ago. It gives us an opportunity to
replenish that stock and make sure that
we've got product in the stores
at our dealers for customers when they
come. But so far, traffic has has
remained steady. Paul, when it comes to
the tariffs, how's it going in terms of
getting the refunds back from the US
government?
So, you know, we've we we're uh exposed
a lot differently. I think uh many
companies out there are principally
focused on IEPA. Uh many of our tariffs
are under Section 232. Um, and uh
there's been a pretty robust process. Uh
we haven't had any challenges with the
uh um offsets and making sure that uh
we're we're getting the accounting right
uh with the government uh to make sure
that the cash is flowing efficiently.
With IEPA, with the Supreme Court
decision, uh that was somewhat
unexpected. We took the the accrual. We
have not moved our free cash flow
guidance uh like we did our EBIT because
we're not sure when that refund is going
to come. We haven't applied for uh
anything yet, but um you know, we're
going to work through that with the
government in partnership cuz I think
that partnership has worked really well
uh as we've adjusted and tried to
benefit uh the US auto industry the best
we can. Well, how deep is this
partnership? A few weeks ago, there was
a report that the Pentagon is talking to
General Motors and other auto companies
about making munitions and helping in
the war effort. Is that accurate, and
where are those conversations now?
Well, I can't comment on anything
specific, but we do have a a growing GM
defense business, particularly with the
Infantry Squad Vehicle, which has uh
been great um for for the troops and and
for the department as well. Um, but uh
this is this is taking advantage of
really strong US manufacturing, and and
that's where we lead the way, I think uh
as automakers and and do a great job.
So, um you know, while we would rather
not be paying tariffs across the board,
we understand uh the environment um that
that we're in, and we're making sure
that we can pivot the business the best
we can to to adjust to to that reality,
and uh I think the team's done a good
job when you look at the consistency of
our earnings over the last several
years. The earnings speak for
themselves, Paul, at a difficult time.
And we talked all throughout this
interview about the challenges on the
horizon. How does that inform your
approach to capital returns for for
ahead?
Well, you know, our capital allocation
policy starts with investing in the
business. Uh we'll put 10 to 12 billion
dollars in. Much of that uh this year is
actually onshoring work uh that uh was
previously done internationally. And
we're bringing that in as a result of
our tariff response. Um the second uh
pillar of our capital allocation is
making sure we've got a strong balance
sheet. And when you look at where our
our uh balance sheet is, how funded our
pension plans are, we're in a really,
really strong position. And what that's
allowed us to do is take some of that
free cash flow and and allocate it back
to shareholders um
uh to reward them for their confidence
in in the GM story and make sure that
they're generating the returns for their
customers uh as well. During the
quarter, we were able to repurchase
about 800 million dollars uh worth of
stock at about 75 dollars a share,
taking advantage of some of that dip,
and continuing to uh be very, very
consistent about the way we apply our
capital allocation. Paul, when you look
forward and at the potential priorities
of General Motors, how much do you see
EVs as playing a a bigger part just
because of some of the questions around
oil, as well as of course uh autonomous
driving?
So, while we did take uh a number of
charges, special item charges uh uh last
year and even in the quarter as we
continue to right-size our EV footprint
uh as a result of the new regulatory
environment, unlike many of our
competitors, we're sticking with our
models. You know, we discontinued the
BrightDrop van uh for very specific
reasons, but uh we're not impairing any
of our other EV programs like some of
our competitors. We continue to believe
that we can make uh uh EVs work through
our winning platform. They're not
affordable, are not uh profitable at
these levels right now. Uh and that's
something that we've got to work on. So,
we've got a number of battery chemistry
architecture initiatives coming in over
the next couple of years uh that are
going to get the costs down, and where
we think we can uh take and continue our
leading role. We're already number two
in the US Uh in EVs and think we can
continue that and to continue to grow it
in the future. Paul, before we go,
inquiring minds want to know the car
that behind you.
What kind of money do we need to come up
with?
It's definitely in your price range,
John. We'll have a whip around around
the table. Thank you, Paul. Whip around.
Thank you. I'm pleased just pleased that
Paul believes I can afford it, so that's
something. Wasn't that whip around at
Blackstone? Wasn't that the one where
they went around and they
>> our whip around around this table is
quite the same as Blackstone's whip
around. What did they come up with?
>> million.
>> A hundred mil.
>> million for you.
>> You know, it's the Corvette.
>> car. Paul, thank you. Appreciate it,
sir. Thank you very much. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahaira has more. Hey, Yahaira.
>> Hi, John.
The DOJ charging a California man with
trying to kill President Trump over the
weekend. 31-year-old making [music] his
first appearance in federal court. Where
he was also charged with gun offenses.
The suspect sent [music] a manifesto to
family members that was included in
charging documents.
Investors in a Blue Owl fund tendered
less than 1% of shares to Saba Capital
Management and Cox Capital Partners
which had offered to buy them out at a
steep discount. But they said, "No,
thanks." Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the offer expired [music] at
the end of last week and was not
extended.
And nine jurors have now been [music]
seated in the case of Elon Musk versus
Sam Altman. The lawsuit claims Altman
broke with the original mission of Open
AI shifting from [music] a non-profit
vision to a profit-driven model without
Musk's knowledge as a co-founder of the
company. That's your Bloomberg brief,
John. [music] Yahaira, thank you. More
from Yahaira in the next hour. Up next
on the program, the Fed on the
sidelines.
Clearly [music] the shift has been to a
wait-and-see mode. I I be a pretty high
bar for Warsh when he comes in to to
build consensus around the idea of rate
cuts anytime soon. We'll catch up with
Seth Carpenter of Morgan Stanley in just
a moment. From New York City this
morning, good morning. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]
>> Equity futures session lows, bond yields
session highs, likewise in the oil
market as well. Equity futures breaking
down by 0.6. Big tech story this morning
down 1% [music]
on the Nasdaq. In the bonds market,
check it out. Twos, tens, 30s, the long
bond, the 30-year, yields up just a
single basis point, approaching 4.96,
which is the closing high of the year.
And twos up four basis points, getting
interesting at 3.84. [music]
>> This isn't necessarily coming from
histrionic discussion of mass rate hikes
at all of the central banks.
Nonetheless, it is coming with better
than expected growth [music]
and higher longer-term expectations for
oil prices.
I'm sorry to repeat myself, but boiling
the frog, you're seeing this in oil
prices [music] and you're seeing this in
the bond yield space. That's giving a
pretty interesting signal right now.
>> Heading into the Fed's two-day meeting
under surveillance this morning, the Fed
on the sidelines.
Clearly the shift has been to a
wait-and-see mode as opposed to a we
need to cut. There's plenty of officials
who are worried about, you know, the
stickiness of inflation, the impact of
higher oil prices. So, I think it'll be
a pretty high bar for [music] Warsh when
he comes in to to build consensus around
the idea of rate cuts anytime soon.
Powell's [music] comments are going to
be less focused on his view and more
about what the committee's saying.
[music] So, here's the latest this
morning. Traders expect the Federal
Reserve to hold rates steady tomorrow in
what's likely to be Jay Powell's last
policy meeting as Fed chair. Seth
Carpenter of Morgan Stanley joins us now
for more. Seth, good morning. Hey,
Jonathan. How are you? Good to see you,
sir. Are you expecting more explicit
two-way guidance at tomorrow's meeting?
Uh I am expecting a lot of caution on
Jay Powell's part. Uh not a lot of hobby
because of the political environment,
but because if you're writing down
forecasts at this point, you have to
write down a whole set of scenarios, and
then if you ask yourself which scenario
are we going to be in as as Lisa said,
this sort of pressure for maybe higher
oil prices forever.
Most history says oil prices go up, and
then they come back down.
Uh then the news cycle happens, and you
change your view. We're in scenario one.
We're in scenario two. We're in scenario
three. I think uh Powell has no choice
but to accept that fact. I don't know
how you can do monetary policy. I don't
know how you can do economic forecasting
other than to say
we have to see how things go when it
comes to oil prices.
>> The priority at the last news conference
was to anchor inflation expectations, at
least do that verbally. With that in
mind, do you think there is good reason
to come out and say, even if they don't
believe it, there is just as much chance
as a hike as there is a cut for the year
ahead? So, I'm not convinced uh that
they need to go that far. Uh although
it's clearly clearly possible. I think
right now where we've been, the Fed feel
very strongly that the excess inflation
that we have right now, so core
inflation, call it just over 3%, that
the bulk of that in the Fed's view, if
not all of it, the excess, is coming
from tariffs, and that should be fading
over time. I share that view, if perhaps
not quite their conviction.
Uh and then I think they will also want
to say that history tells us that the
pass-through from oil prices, energy
prices into US inflation
clear at the headline level, much more
muted at the at the core level. And so,
I think in some sense, they might want
to lean into that history as a way of
trying to remind people of why inflation
expectations might stay anchored. That's
all predicated on the idea that there
actually is demand destruction, and that
actually is some consumers stop spending
or are unable to spend as much and
actually growth slows.
One of the interesting aspects of the
past couple of weeks is that we've seen
earnings beating expectations, consumer
indicators actually showing an
acceleration, not necessarily
retrenchment. At what point can they
honestly say that they've seen a real
cooling in the labor market given the
fact that it's unclear exactly what that
dynamic is.
>> I think I think you have highlighted
exactly the path to a rate hike which is
inflation stays higher than they expect,
the cooling, the deceleration that
they've been looking for just on prices
doesn't happen and then the real side of
the economy not only doesn't start to
buckle but maybe gains little momentum.
Now, we've been of the view that the
momentum of the economy is there. It
will probably sustain itself, broaden in
the second half of the year.
>> [clears throat]
>> If that happens and not only does
inflation not fall but maybe starts to
rise, we're going to see a very, very
different tone from the Fed. Does it
matter what the Fed says right now
because it doesn't matter if Fed Chair
Jay Powell isn't going to be the Fed
chair in the next meeting and it will be
very interesting if he stays on as
governor. That's all that anyone is ever
going to ask about at this particular
meeting. I think it does matter for a
few reasons. One, there's a very high
chance that Chair Powell stays on as a
governor and I think in that sense he'll
be a permanent
he'll be a permanent voter. I think
second, one of the things that the chair
tends to do at the press conferences is
try to reflect the view of the
committee, reflect the range of views on
the committee
and
if everything goes according to the plan
and Kevin Warsh is confirmed and and
becomes chair in short order,
the committee as a whole isn't going to
turn over that much. There's going to be
that change, the chair and the chair
clearly matters but it's not as though
the the committee is going to be
completely different and so whatever
Powell is able to reflect about the
thinking of the committee, I think we
need to take that seriously because it
will inform where policy goes at least
for the rest of this year and into the
next year. Do you think there's more of
a chance he stays on than doesn't?
Uh
you know, I
in some sense that's like the oil price.
Each day there's a new headline and I
have to revise my my expectation.
Uh you know, he said that um
uh he wants to stay on as long until the
investigation is well and truly over. I
think he has to define for us exactly
what that means. I'm not sure I have
great insight uh as to what exactly that
means. Uh I feel reasonably confident
that um your peers in in journalism
there at the press conference will ask
him that once and then again
>> Well, let's hope
let's hope it's the first question, not
like the sixth or seventh like the last
Fed press conference. But in terms of
the politics surrounding this, if he
were to stay on, does that create
confusion?
Um
the list of confusion for me at least in
forecasting the economy right now is
very long. I would put that further down
the list. Um
I mean [clears throat]
the like I said, I think for me when it
comes to what monetary policy is likely
to do, especially say for the balance of
2026, really comes down to where the
core of the committee is. The committee
is a committee. Votes are taken. People
make a big deal when there are dissents
because policy decisions literally are
votes and because we're going to get a
new chair, that can help adjust the
tone, maybe what what the debate is at
the table, but I don't think it
ultimately makes a big difference for
this year for where policy ends up.
>> But do you think the way that policy is
communicated might change? And is that
important to you as an economist who
follows these institutions? Yeah, no, I
think almost certainly communication's
going to change over time, but we've
seen that essentially with every chair.
I was at the Fed when Ben Bernanke
introduced the press conferences, when
he introduced the summary of economic
projections and the dot plot. Um the
the press conference itself evolved over
time. The statement itself evolved over
time and now there's a structure to it
where the first paragraph has this
important, you know, looks backward. The
second paragraph does something
different. Um so, an evolution of
communication, I don't think is is to be
feared. I think it's it should be
expected. Um, but it's also very context
specific. One of the things that Kevin
Warsh just said is that forward guidance
maybe has not served the Fed well
consistently. And if you look at the
economic academic literature, there's a
lot of similar views that at the zero
lower bound, for example, maybe forward
guidance is particularly effective
because you can anchor expectations, but
when you're away from the zero lower
bound, I think there's a consensus among
macroeconomists that forward guidance is
probably less important. And so, again,
that evolution person-to-person,
chair-to-chair, committee-to-committee,
but it's also very context specific.
Yesterday we had an economist on who was
saying [clears throat] that he expects
J. Powell to stay on as a governor as
Kevin Warsh reshapes the Fed in some
capacities, that he would want to vote
in exactly how things get restructured.
Do you see that as a likely case?
Well, I mean, so, A, we can go by some
of what the chair has said, that he
wants to stay on until he sort of feels
like uh the the
legal questions are fully settled. Um, I
would say, having worked at the Fed when
J. Powell was there, uh he tends to make
decisions very much based on what he
thinks is right for the institution, for
the country, for the economy, for the
Fed's mandate. So, I think that's going
to be the primary motivating factor for
him. Seth, it's good to see you. Thanks
for breaking it down. Great chatting,
Seth. As always, Seth Carpenter today of
Morgan Stanley. The Fed's two-day
meeting begins later on this morning,
concludes tomorrow afternoon. Yeah, and
that will be the first question, I'm
sure. And will you stay on as a
governor? I am curious though about the
economic questions, too. How do you uh
set the bar and anchor inflation
expectations, given the fact that there
is momentum in the underlying economy?
And higher oil prices aren't going to
necessarily go away so quickly.
>> I'm slightly worried, somewhat
concerned, that this question over
Powell's future introduces a dependency
issue when it's not clear there is one.
That we start to believe that in order
to defend Central Bank independence,
Federal Reserve independence, we need
Chairman Powell to stay on this Federal
Reserve board for the next 2 years.
>> [music]
>> That brings its own problems if you
start to think that way.
>> Well, it ends up in the 1948, the early
[music] 1950s of the Eccles Federal
Reserve. And are we in a parallel moment
of restructuring? And I think a lot of
people are wondering that.
>> Inflation expectations would say no, but
maybe inflation expectations are wrong
and reading this story completely the
wrong way. We'll have that debate
tomorrow. [music] Up next on the
program, a man who upgraded his price
target on the S&P 500 at the very start
of this war. That's [music] next.
We're kind of seeing everything rally.
>> Obviously, there's going to be some
pullback.
>> Earnings are strong, but a lot of that
strength is being driven primarily by
tech.
>> We have to look through to the actual
earnings and fundamentals.
>> We still see higher equity markets by
the end of the year.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
The price action, the scores, looks like
this. Pulling off all-time highs on the
S&P 500 in back-to-back sessions, but
pulling away from them this morning.
We're down by 0.7% on the S&P,
underperforming on the Nasdaq. The
Nasdaq 100 down by [music] 1.3%. The
why? The Wall Street Journal indicating
OpenAI are falling short of their own
targets. That's taking down Oracle by
more than 6% and it's not just a tech
story. Commodities [music]
out to new highs this morning, 7
consecutive days of gains for Brent up
by 4% 112. WTI triple digits. And with
that move, this move [music] in bonds.
Yields twos, tens, and 30s. Twos up five
basis points, 3.85.
Heading into that two-day meeting of the
Federal Reserve after we got a Bank of
Japan decision that was split because
there were a significant number of
members, three of them, that did want
the the board to hike rates from 0.75%.
How does the Fed take a look at a
stagflationary shock given the fact that
we've seen earnings remain intact? At
the same time, do we start to see some
pushback [music] with the OpenAI type of
report leading to maybe a similar types
of notes in the other tech earnings? I
mean, how much does that really set the
bar that much higher for what we hear
tomorrow? WTI north of $100 a barrel is
massive for this White House. They've
been wanting to keep it below $100 a
barrel. And right now, we have Chris
Wright talking to us earlier in the
program saying that Iran doesn't have a
huge amount of storage left. [music]
They're at this impasse. It doesn't seem
like the president is willing to take
the Iranian proposal to open the strait,
but kick the can down the road when it
comes to nuclear. And the administration
says they're absolutely not, even though
I've heard otherwise, they're absolutely
not studying this idea of a ban on
export of oil products. So, [music]
basically, what we could potentially see
going to peak driving season is a lot
higher gasoline prices.
>> 420 420 around those levels right now,
420 a gallon on average in this country
in the last 24 hours. That's a new high
since this war started. This cross-asset
mix gets my attention this morning.
Longer-dated crude prices out to new
highs.
Bond yields, not [music] just in the US,
but in Europe as well, retesting the
highs of the year at the same time that
equities are 13% off the lows on the S&P
[music] 500 supported by earnings. And
the earnings, the good news, because
we've talked about the bad news so far,
the good [music] news is the earnings so
far this morning have been pretty
decent.
>> Yeah, GM coming out beating
expectations. Coca-Cola upgrading their
full-year forecast. We've seen even
Lentil Tree coming out and actually
performing, as well as all of the major
credit cards. [music]
Airlines outperformed, even though we
are hearing on the margins that people
might be cutting back a little bit in
the past couple [music] of weeks. You
put all of this together, it is a toxic
brew for the Federal Reserve because
there's enough strength to maintain the
price [music] increases that might
pressure their ability to really respond
to any weakness in demand destruction
with any kind of rate cuts.
>> That Fed [music] decision tomorrow
afternoon futures -0.7% on the S&P
coming up this hour. Vina Krishna of
Barclays with the market rally stalling.
Lindsey Piegza of Stifel saying that
Kevin Walsh confirmation could lead to
Powell stepping down. And Ben Reitzes of
Melius Research with concerns growing
over the future of OpenAI. We begin this
hour with stocks pulling back from
all-time highs. Vina Krishna of Barclays
writing real money demand could
normalize considering how far inflows
are running, but portfolios have room to
continue re-risking. Vina joins us now
for more. Vina, good morning. Good
morning.
>> Credit to you, sir. Let's give you a
victory lap just briefly. I think it was
March 24th you came out and raised your
target for the S&P 500 which felt
absolutely bonkers at the time. Since
that day, what have we moved? 10%?
Almost 10% off those levels?
>> the last I checked, 13%.
>> 13 off the lows. 13 off the lows. Your
call was about a week before the lows.
Let's not get too excited here, Vina.
Last I checked, like you don't have to
wake up every day and check. [laughter]
Okay, Vina.
Let's talk about the reset. Massive
rally from where we were. Earnings seem
to be supporting that so far. What's the
outlook look like now?
I think the outlook still is optimistic,
but obviously given the pace of the move
and the speed and we noted that this was
one of the fastest moves in the last 35
years from from a trough. So, I think
the speed itself gives you a little bit
of uh reason to take a step back and
take a deep breath. Uh but once again, I
think like the driver behind our
optimistic outlook a few weeks ago, uh
the core earning strength is very, very
strong.
If you look at some of the big
investment growth drivers, they've
actually expanded. So, earlier we were
hanging our hat on uh AI cap expend. Now
with the war, interestingly it across
the developed markets, you are
potentially looking at a defense
spending cycle and an energy security
cycle, right? You put all that together,
there's a lot of sort of
capital which will come into existence.
And I think the other important thing,
the AI narrative,
uh
the stocks did stumble from late last
year into, you know, early Q3 Q1, uh but
that is very much intact. In other
words, the capital spending is higher,
their earnings are strong,
adoption is increasing, and the
expectation is that the uh spending on
AI will broaden to include sovereigns
and enterprise.
Um
So, expanding. So, I think, you know,
this this mix at a time also when when
you look at the macro point, you know,
consumer sentiment has been weak broadly
for the last 2 years, Yeah. but that is
not reflected in hard data of what
they're spending. So, the resilience of
the US consumer is an important factor
behind this, and that hasn't broken as
yet. So, you know,
and the last point I think to note is
that typically, uh if you look at the
earnings revision cycles, you know, they
start high and they get cut, and they
reach a low point with the end of March,
and then things actually are better at
the end of the year versus where we are
in March. This is one of the rare years
in which we've gone the other way.
Numbers are going up. Now, in all
fairness, that's largely being driven by
tech
and other adjacent industries which are
benefiting from the capital spend. But,
you know, one way or the other, the
point is that the market remains
dependent on tech, which by our
estimate, depending on how you define
it, is, you know, approaching 50% of the
market, and and there the strength is is
intact.
>> talk about tech, and let's talk about
CapEx. You alluded to this. Are the
sources of the CapEx broad enough? First
to say here this morning, appreciate the
importance of that OpenAI story, but
look past it.
No, OpenAI is very important, right? If
you look at what is going to happen, one
of the questions we get from clients a
lot is how are investors, for example,
going to readjust their portfolios given
the massive pipeline of of IPOs coming
to market. OpenAI is a big part of it.
You know, what OpenAI and
you know, Anthropic and all that they
they reveal in terms of their
financials, in terms of the growth, in
terms of the customer base and models
and everything else is going to be
critical to the whole AI infrastructure.
And of course, with the case of OpenAI,
they have their tentacles deeply
embedded across the whole AI ecosystem.
So, I think it is definitely worth
watching.
And it definitely will That's why you
see a little bit of a dampener this
morning. But my instinct is to
look past this.
You know, one data point is not going to
change the story.
Uh
the narrative has broadened in fact in
the last 6 months. And there is
in fact, it is now a consensus view that
this AI narrative is indeed
transformational. Which is the reason
why I think some people are getting a
little skeptical and wondering if
valuations have gotten a little bit
high. A lot of it's also predicated on
the idea that that technology can be
completely independent of a lot of the
events that are transpiring, whether
it's with respect to oil prices, whether
it's respect to interest rates. It just
is this existential risk that people
just keep needing to spend it on. At
what point do you think that'll get
tested given the fact that we are seeing
oil prices creep higher and we are
seeing a question around just how far
this can go.
I think right now, as you point out,
effectively there is a disconnect
between the macro concerns right now and
what is happening to the risk assets,
whether it's credit spreads in the high
yield, IG, or equities, risk premium, or
to that extent equity earnings. They're
all robust. I think disconnect will
happen when you start seeing the impact
of that flow through in the growth
expectations and dynamic, and perhaps on
the inflation expectations as well.
That hasn't happened to a meaningful
extent right now. And that's the reason
why even though the rates market has
moved higher uh and there's some
uncertainty, but it has been reasonably
well anchored. I would say 10 below 4
and 1/2. Like I said in the past, I
think the 10-year especially moving
higher beyond 4 and 1/2 going towards
fives, which we tested by the way in the
last, you know, 12 to 18 months
is is is something which means that the
macro risks are indeed spilling over and
equity markets will have to react and
recognize that risk. But right now, we
are in a relatively
sort of safe spot where the earning
story is overpowering and strong enough
with, you know, growth rate
accelerating. Last year we posted over
14% growth, higher than what we
expected. This year we are seeing 15
16%. Consensus is already closer to 18
19%. It's all consolidated in the
biggest companies and you're seeing a
lot of the gains really increasingly
concentrated there. JetBlue reported
earnings.
We were just hearing about that from
Hyra and they missed completely. They
have a wider than expected loss. They're
probably going to be laying people off.
They've talked about how we don't have
to declare bankruptcy yet. You never
want to hear those words. I just wonder
from your perspective how much of a
warning shot is this versus just a
market where the weakest players are
going to you know, fall out and you want
to just stay focused in the largest
ones. You know, largest one for sure. We
have been saying that for a while. We
have liked big tech from from Q4 of '22
and we haven't changed our opinion. But
also note that what you're telling me is
exactly what has been happening in the
market for the last 18 months, which is
correlations are extremely low. Returns
dispersions are very high. We have moved
away from a storyline of rising tide
lifts the all boats in the AI
perspective to a winners and losers sort
of a story. And that is extending across
every sector in terms of, you know,
who's managing the costs well, who can
pass through, who have better pricing
power, who who's less disrupted by AI,
who is more whose model is more
defensible, right? So that story is
rolling and I think we are in that
phase. Idiosyncratic risk is extremely
high. That's why if you look at the
options market the earnings this week is
a bigger catalyst in the FOMC decision.
We agree with you.
>> That just tells you that a third of the
market cap roughly approaching is
reporting
uh and the market is spruced up and
ready to take cues, right? And if
something goes wrong, going back to the
answer, that's where the cues will start
coming. Uh and you know, so it's worth
watching. Let's see what you heard from
Open AI, Yeah.
>> right? Which is still private. Let's see
what the five guys say when they report
this week. Down the
What happens if that company doesn't
like it?
What would happen? Open AI? Yeah.
That's a tough question.
And we've we've sort of bizarrely gotten
this query, I think, in the past and all
that.
>> that a lot from clients, don't Yeah.
Yeah, every now and then we get that. I
just think that ecosystem is too big.
They're too central.
Uh and I think they have been they have
shown to be very flexible, right? Look,
for example, look at look at Meta, how
they did a 180 on their business model.
Look at a company like Microsoft where
under under Satya, uh they changed if
they moved 800, you know, uh you know,
tanker, massive tanker in the whole
business model. I think I think Open AI
is too central. They'll adapt. Uh but
they're large enough players where this
is a um
in a capitalistic uh setup, I I think
the market will absorb all these sort of
Too big. Too central. Too big. Too big
to fail.
I am not too sure. I'm not too sure
because the ecosystem has significantly
bigger players. Uh you know, look at
look at look at Anthropic. Look at how
they are racing ahead in terms of their
uh revenue print. Look at companies
like, for example, Cursor, which is a
private company. Look at the revenue run
rate. I think we are at a very pivotal
moment right now in which um significant
amount of changes are unfolding right
now. Uh so, you know, I think it's
important it's it's an important risk
factor given how deeply they're
embedded, uh but I'm not too sure that
it's worth frankly even speculating that
that something goes wrong. I think
uh they'll figure it out. The system in
aggregate will absolutely figure it out.
There'll be others who will step in and
it'll get it'll dissipate quite
seamlessly across the system. Venu,
right now, capacity constraint seems to
be the view of things in this particular
sector, and other people will be looking
to step in. Yeah, if they can't afford
their data centers, well, probably
Microsoft and uh and Google and some of
the others will. So, that's the
expectation. This may be upholding some
of the growth.
>> view of things.
>> the the the less rosy view is that maybe
all that capacity wasn't needed because
it was being built out in the hopes and
dreams that didn't really come to
fruition. Venu, it's good to see you.
Thank you, sir. Thank you. Top call, by
the way. Fantastic. Thank you. Venu
Krishna there of Barclays. Let's get you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Yahaira Hasmar, hey, Yahaira. Hi, John.
As you were discussing, pressure [music]
mounting for OpenAI, the Wall Street
Journal reporting the company failed to
meet its own goals for sales and weekly
active users for ChatGPT. The shortfall
is fueling internal fears that OpenAI
may struggle [music] to fund its massive
AI infrastructure spending.
Saudi Aramco is suspending liquefied
[music] gas shipments due to damage at
its main export facility from the Iran
war. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that Aramco has informed
[music] buyers that shipments will be
suspended through May. The news coming
as Brent crude prices [music] are
pushing past 3-week highs.
And we are seeing Coca-Cola shares
rising 3% in the premarket after
first-quarter sales [music] topped
expectations. The company has been
raising prices on its drinks, and
consumers are still buying. Plus, some
of that growth
>> [music]
>> is coming from shoppers opting for
smaller sized bottles. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. [music] Yohana,
thank you. Thank you very much. More
from Yohana later this hour. Up next,
the Morning Calls plus, we'll catch up
with Tom Fitzgerald of TD Cowen breaking
down the latest results from a
struggling [music]
JetBlue. From New York City this
morning. Good morning.
The president's focused on getting the
right deal. That could be independent of
their storage, but obviously that puts
great heat on Iran. If we can get the
right resolution, uh that could be
tomorrow, that could be 2 weeks from
now, but with the key thing is the
[music] right resolution. We were going
to catch up with the US Energy Secretary
Chris Wright a little bit earlier on
this morning. Taken off the table with
the potential of an export ban. Some
speculation at the moment, that
speculation making a comeback with
gasoline prices in this country
approaching 420. [music] New highs since
the war started and crude building on
gains more recently as well. Check out
equity markets, we'll start there.
>> [music]
>> Pulling back from all-time highs. We're
negative 0.7% on the S&P. On the Nasdaq,
we're down by 1.2%. [music]
If we switch at the board and get to the
commodity market, you'll see crude out
to new highs this morning, session
highs, 112 on Brent, a seventh
consecutive [music] day of gains up by
3.5% and WTI
back into triple digits, 100.50 [music]
this morning. With that move in crude,
this move in bonds, yields up [music] at
the front end of the curve. Two's up by
five. Two's at 3.84. Still some 16 basis
points away from 4%, which was a level
[music]
that we were starting to talk about
maybe we settle up with the prospect of
a Federal Reserve thinking about hiking
interest rates. That was the
conversation of let's [music] say 6
weeks ago. Things settled down since
then, so I wonder what things look like
going into the Federal Reserve meeting
tomorrow afternoon. Yeah, and what it
means when the entire world is facing
the same dynamic, the entire developed
world is seeing their bond yields creep
higher on the face in face of higher oil
prices, but also the likelihood that
they're going to have to incur more debt
in order to finance some of the programs
to offset these higher energy costs. The
Federal Reserve is going to be somewhat
hamstrung by discussions about the
political future, but also questions
about how high the bar is for them to
hike rates, not just cut. Will they put
that back on the table?
>> The movement in the commodity market has
been a headwind for this market, a
cyclical headwind for this market for
the last 2 months. The support was
coming from tech, not this morning.
Oracle is now down by 7% in the
pre-market. Keep going back [music] to
this Journal story. That's what's
driving things this morning, that Open
AI is falling short of its own targets.
>> could see Coreweave, for example, which
is also highly dependent on Open AI,
also absolutely plunging. Is this a
signal for what we're going to get
tomorrow and Thursday after the bell
with respect [music] to some of the tech
names that could signify that maybe
demand is coming in just a bit softer,
or is this an Open AI issue where they
lost subscribers to Gemini, where they
lost business [music] to Anthropic, and
simply they're trying to catch up and
figure out how to keep some of the
subscribers in tow? Is this just
weakness, or is this really a tell?
Tomorrow afternoon could be wild. It
will be wild.
>> Amazon, Microsoft, Meta, Alphabet all
reporting after the closing bell
tomorrow. Let's get you some morning
calls, that's the price action, the
debate of the morning. First up, Citi
lowering its price target on Palantir to
210, noting the multiple compression in
software. Your second call from DA
Davidson initiating coverage of Micron
with a street-high price target of
1,000, seeing strong AI tailwinds for
the chip maker. And finally, Mizuho
raising its price target on Amazon ahead
of earnings, citing positive quarterly
growth from its chip and AI revenue.
That name down this morning. Like a lot
of tech names, we're down by 1.5%. Let's
[music] turn to the airlines. JetBlue
shares sliding after reporting a wider
than expected loss for the first
quarter. Tom Fitzgerald at TD Cowen
maintaining a hold rating on the company
while remaining bullish on the overall
industry. Tom joins us now for more.
Tom, welcome to the program. We'll spend
some time talking about the industry,
talking about the innings in just a
moment. I have one question with regards
to JetBlue. Is there something in this
company that the likes of United might
want to buy?
Well, I think you know, there's been a
lot of discussion about United's
interest in getting back into JFK. So, I
think that would be viewed as the crown
jewel, but they also have a great
Caribbean franchise, major presence in
Boston,
so I and and a huge fleet of Airbus. So,
I I think there's a lot
a lot of assets that JetBlue has.
Right now though, Tom, is JetBlue just
indicative of how much pain there is in
some of the more domestic and vacation
focused airlines given the fact that
ultimately all of them seem to be either
having their hands out or reporting
earnings that are somewhat negative?
Yeah, I I I mean I think JetBlue was
you know, they had started from a deeper
hole maybe the last couple years just
given some of the challenges that had
beset that company, many of them out of
their control like the GTF engine
groundings.
Um, so I think if you're just starting
from a position of fragility, any any of
these type of
crises that seemingly hit the industry
every year, it's that much harder to
absorb them versus the Deltas or the
Uniteds of the world who are starting
from a
with a little more buffered by their by
their profit base. Do you think it's
appropriate for some of the budget
airlines to get a government bailout
survive? Do you think that consolidation
is the best route? What's your take on
that?
It's it's something that investors are
grappling with. I I think that prior to
the last couple months, the the one of
the bull cases on the broader industry
was that you were going you were seeing
this process of unprofitable capacity
leaving the system and that that would
be supportive of a multiple re-rating
that there'd just be more rational
players like other quality industrial um
sub sectors. I think now this wild card
that maybe there's a just a set amount
amount of capacity that won't be allowed
to leave the system because it's deemed
too important for
um price-sensitive consumers. That's a
new risk investors have to grapple with
and and and maybe that um whether it it
crimps the multiple re-rating story for
the broader group or possibly causes
more dispersion between the haves and
the have-nots. That that's something
we're watching very closely. Um I think
frustrating for JetBlue given their
presence in Lauderdale, given the
opportunities that they would have
there, they're reviewed as a major
beneficiary of ultra low-cost
rationalization. So um so you know, I
think I think every day it seems like um
the direction's changing, but yeah, it's
definitely top of mind for investors
right now.
>> Tom, you still like the industry. When
you say you like the industry, is that
just one or two names? What does that
mean?
No, I I think broadly it's still been a
and overall the industry continues to
gentrify as United's CFO likes to say. I
I think it's a lot healthier than it was
10 years ago, 15 years ago, 25 years
ago. Um they have these crown jewel
credit card programs, the um the
earnings and revenue revenue volatility
is is dampening.
Um there's a nice deleveraging story
going on on a lot of names. It it has
consolidated into a healthier group of
companies that they're working on
diversifying revenue, that are getting
better at charging more for their
product and and not under pricing and
and earning their cost of capital. Um I
I think Delta and United are um
are are you know, out ahead of the of
the group and they have been for years,
but I I do think the industry continues
to offer a lot of upside for investors
over the longer term. Tom, appreciate
your time. Not great results from
JetBlue this morning. Tom Fitzgerald
there of TD Cowen. As we've been
conducting that conversation, an
interesting developing story in the oil
market. This from the UAE deciding to
exit OPEC and OPEC class starting on May
1. This is a really big deal. For years
they've flirted with this, especially
when they've come under maybe I would
say pressure from the kingdom. And the
UAE would say we want to chart our own
course. We want to produce more
um oil. We want to export more. Now,
they've finally made this decision, and
it's coming um officially that they
decide to exit OPEC OPEC plus. They've
been a member since 1967. They're the
third biggest producer. This is a really
big deal, and I think it shows that the
Gulf is fractured at the moment on a
number of issues, including energy
policy.
>> Well, and some more headlines just
crossing that the UAE is going to boost
oil production gradually. So, this would
be the goal of exiting OPEC plus, having
their own control over how much oil they
produce, and that OPEC's exit uh will
help the country meet changing demand.
You did see an initial uh move lower in
oil prices. I do want to just to pick up
the point that Emre made there about how
much this signals a fracturing of the
Middle East, and what this says for the
United Arab Emirates' relationship with
Saudi Arabia, which really has held uh
sort of clout over OPEC plus. Does this
indicate something deeper, or is this
just a practical decision in order to
meet demands at a time of a lot of
uncertainty?
>> As Emre alluded to it, it's been
somewhat of a long-standing issue.
What's interesting about this is you
want to handle your own affairs coming
out of this crisis,
but that's a big move that indicates
[music] that this could be the new
normal looking beyond this particular
crisis.
>> Yeah, and also I think it just shows
that the Gulf is not a monolith. These
countries [music] want to chart their
own paths, but this is a this is a
massive move for Abu Dhabi. Crude this
morning 112 on Brent, triple digits on
crude, big market moves, equity futures
near session lows.
Equities near session lows were negative
three quarters of 1% on the S&P 500
following an epic rally for big tech in
this country, [music] pulling back 1.4%
on the Nasdaq 100, some jitters around
OpenAI informed by a story from Wall The
Wall Street Journal that they are
falling short of their own internal
targets. That's weighing on the equity
market. This is too. Crude, Brent, WTI,
Brent 7 days of gains, just [music]
short of 112, 111.88, and up this
morning by more than 3%. Triple digits
on WTI. So, new highs this morning,
session highs for crude.
>> [music]
>> At the same time, we get session highs
for yields. Yields this morning, 30s,
new high for the year, 4.96 on a closing
basis if we have those levels twos at
3.84, up by four basis points so far
today. Stocks have been able to dance to
their own music even as you do see uh
yields [music] rising and you do see oil
prices rising as long as the earning
story hangs in there. And we keep
talking about that. The [music] earnings
keep proving why this resilience makes
sense. What happens if there's a hiccup
in tech? And that ultimately is the hint
that we got from this reporting about
OpenAI not meeting their targets. Do we
get a flavor of that in some of the
earnings reports that come after the
bell tomorrow?
>> the story that's holding up the equity
market. That's the reason we've had this
massive parabolic rally off the lows,
the lows of March. A move of or 18 days
on chips of close to 50%, which is crazy
talk, but it happened. That's the
support factor.
That's been the support. Now, it's
starting to fracture just a little bit.
I wouldn't make too much of that at this
point. The headwind that's coming from
crude continues [music] to build. And
when I look across asset this morning,
when you start to see crude long-dated
prices make new highs, when you start to
see bond yields
>> [music]
>> retest the highs of the year so far,
gets your attention just a little bit
more. Well, because everyone's been
saying this is a a short-lived type of
crisis and once this ends, we can
normalize and things will be okay. But,
you know, I keep going back to something
Stuart [music] Kaiser wrote over the
weekend where he said that time is the
catalyst here. And that the longer this
goes on, you hit a tipping point [music]
where suddenly you do get supply chain
disruptions that are very hard to paper
over. And at what point are you looking
at something [music]
that looks very different for the equity
market than currently was being priced
in.
>> Brent off now? About $6, $6 away. The
front month anyway, $6 away from the
closing high of the year. Yeah, I mean,
it's not very far.
>> And equities are 13% off the lows.
>> It's creeping higher and it isn't as
much of a surprise. So, it's [music] the
pace of change. It isn't changing, but
the changing and not changing is part of
the problem. If you've got a stalemate,
but the longer this goes on, the more
you have a growing problem in fiscal
world.
>> Brent crude, [music] 112, up by 3%.
Let's get you some single names. Big
tech factor this morning with those
morning movers. Yohai has more. Hey,
Yohai. Hi, John. We are seeing
Qualtrics, Oracle, AMD, and Nvidia all
lower in the pre-market on that Wall
Street Journal report we've all been
referencing this morning that OpenAI
missed some of its sales [music] and
growth targets and raising questions
internally about whether it can keep up
with that AI spending. And that is push
put putting [music] pressure on names
like Qualtrics and Oracle because
they're right at the center of the AI
build-out and have deals
>> [music]
>> with OpenAI and AMD and Nvidia also have
massive partnerships with OpenAI on the
chip [music] side. Uh turning to
earnings, we are seeing UPS shares now
down 5% in the pre-market because even
though it [music] beat on earnings, it
held its outlook steady. Compare that to
FedEx, which raised its outlook last
month, and you get some disappointed
investors. [music]
And we end on GM. Shares are rising in
the pre-market up just uh 10th of a
percent now [music] um trimming some of
its earlier gains. The driver was strong
demand for its pickup trucks and SUVs
even as gas prices continue to climb.
That's helping to offset some weakness
in its EV sales, but of course, the big
question is
can it maintain that resilience in its
gas-guzzling vehicles if [music] if the
Iran war continues and gas prices
continue to climb, John. Yohai, thank
you. Thank you for the update. Lots of
stock stories out there this morning.
Federal Reserve meeting kicking off
later on this morning. Two-day meeting
concludes tomorrow. Our next Mike McKee
has a preview of what to watch. Good
morning, Mike.
Well, we're watching that guy. We'll see
if he gets confirmed tomorrow by the
Senate Banking Committee and then sent
to the floor. He could be the chairman
at the next meeting after this one.
Could be Jay Powell's last one. So, do
they do anything to sort of mark the end
and to do something about the economy?
Well, there is an argument out there
that they should make some kind of move.
They're not going to change interest
rates, we know that. There's no SEP.
There is no dot plot change. But, PCE
inflation Thursday, we get the number
for March. It's expected to be 3.5%.
$100 oil, tariffs to come.
Do they change the statement and say
that the next move is either up or down?
There's been a move towards that
two-sided idea over the last couple of
meetings. More and more members have
been saying that. The key line to watch
in the statement is this one. In
considering the extent and timing of
additional adjustments to the target
range for the federal funds rate. That
hasn't changed in some months. That's
basically saying we think we're going to
be cutting again and we're just waiting
to see what kind of factors push us in
one direction or another, but they may
get rid of that and change it to
something that says we could do either
one. The setup for that is
they could ratify the market view that
there is not going to be a cut this
year, which is way the markets are
thinking right now. And especially the
longer the war goes on.
But, it would clash with the Kevin Warsh
remit from the president, cut rates as
soon as possible. And since this is
Powell's last meeting, what kind of
guidance does he give about what the
Fed's thinking going forward and how
much attention do people pay to it? So,
watch the statement at 2:00 and then
we'll listen to Jay Powell talk about
that. And then of course, we'll get into
the important stuff of what's Powell
going to do next.
>> Mike McKee, thank you, sir. Looking
forward to your coverage, as always,
down in Washington, D.C. One element of
that jumps out for me, two-sided risk.
Is this a chair that looks to anchor
inflation expectations and suggest, even
if they don't believe it, that the
chance of a rate hike is equal to the
chance of a rate cut this year? And how
much does support would he have on the
committee to potentially do that, given
the fact that we've heard from a number
of the members who are very concerned
about the inflationary push and what
that could mean longer term?
>> Would that be awkward for the incoming
Fed chair to take on a more neutral
situation on the committee, or is that
an ideal position to take up?
>> He might come in and say it is two-sided
risk, we're going to cut rates.
And I don't have to explain it, because
no communication is necessary.
We're going to bank communication.
>> So, they just That's what we do.
>> dictatorship, Romer. It's a committee.
It is a committee, and he could talk
about reshaping. Look, he's not going to
do anything for a while, anyway. He's
gotten the clear signal from
Treasury Secretary Yellen.
>> think that's really important.
>> over the last month or so.
>> that might be more important than
>> heat coming off the institution. I've
heard that from Bullard, and from
Hassett, Waller as well. If you take
that as a suggestion that they're taking
down the heat a little bit.
>> Yeah, well, ultimately, the economy has
to speak for itself. How many crises can
they deal with at one time? So, maybe he
has some potential
reprieve, at least in the short term.
>> Looking ahead to tomorrow, Lindsey
Piearsa of Steve Liesman writing, "If
the Senate Banking Committee confirms
Kevin Warsh on Wednesday morning, Powell
could potentially announce he is
stepping down at the press conference."
Lindsey joins us now for more. Lindsey,
good morning. Good morning. Is this the
last meeting for Chairman Powell, then?
It It certainly could be. It looks like
the blockage to Warsh's confirmation has
been removed, and if he is confirmed on
Wednesday, that means he could be
sitting in that seat by the June
meeting. When he heads to the exit,
Chairman Powell, what does he take with
him? What changes at this institution?
Well, I I think he's done a
remarkable job navigating very difficult
conditions, and I think that's what he
takes with him, that he was able to
maintain the credibility, the
independence of the Fed, despite
pressure from the market, despite
pressure from different administrations.
And I think that's all a chairman can
really hope to take away from. Do you
think that he will signal two-sided risk
given the fact that oil prices are
expected to remain higher for longer and
the US economy seems to be hanging in
there? I don't think we're going to see
that specifically in the statement, and
and I think more than anything from the
press conference, what we're going to
hear from Powell is uncertainty. Like we
heard last time, there were multiple
times when he said, "We just don't
know." And I think he's going to
underscore again the uncertainty that is
plaguing the economy, not only because
of the international conflict, but the
aged nature of the recovery, where we
are on this pathway. And given that, I
think he's going to emphasize the need
for patience. The Fed has opened to the
door, opened the conversation to not
only holding policy steady, but
potentially rate hikes, but the bar is
extremely high. So, more than anything,
Powell is going to reiterate the need
for patience to understand the evolution
of the data and continue to remain in
this steady pace of policy for now. As
much as everyone wants to just wants to
hear uncertainty again and again and
again, I'm sure a lot of the commentary
is going to be around whether he's going
to stay on as governor and what that
could mean, especially given Kevin
Warsh's desire to reshape the way that
the Fed operates. Do you expect Fed
Chair Jay Powell to want to have a say
in exactly how that is as he views
himself as trying to navigate any kind
of change and maintaining an
independence of the Federal Reserve? I
think he would. And remember when Warsh
is talking about reshaping the Fed, what
he's talking about is giving more firm
guidelines in terms of the relationship
between the Fed and the federal
government, which he says has become
perverted over the past several decades.
If we go back historically, there was a
firm accord that said the Fed is
independent of the federal government,
but more recently, that relationship has
become muddied as we see this massive
expansion of the Fed's balance sheet
really facilitate this massive expansion
of government spending. So, Warsh is
saying, "Let's go back to grassroots, go
back to that traditional relationship,
and have a firm guideline, which could
help to rein in government spending and
by extension then reduce the
inflationary risk and potentially then
lead to a lower interest rate
environment. So, if that is a
longer-term pathway,
I think Chair Powell would want to be
somewhat part of that. But again, it's
not necessarily the traditional pathway
to remain on the board once the
chairmanship is over. So, it remains to
be seen what he sees as his longer-term
career pathway at the Fed.
>> remain, doesn't that in essence also
create problems for Fed independence
because he's breaking a precedent?
It's not unprecedented. We have seen it
before. If we go back to Eccles, for
example, he did stay on the board even
after the chairman. Well, it's not
unprecedented. It has occurred. So, I
don't think that questions or raises
questions about the Fed's independence.
You say there's going to be a lot of
uncertainty with the economy and the Fed
is facing a number of issues and
catalysts. Does Powell need to come out
with certainty about his future?
I don't know if that will necessarily
add any
certainty to to the outlook for policy.
I think right now what the market is
looking for is a better understanding of
where the Fed's focus is. We were
starting to see the pendulum shift
towards employment, but now with Powell
coming out and acknowledging that maybe
the equilibrium is at a net zero level,
the focus is shifting back to inflation.
And the market wants to understand how
much of a concern is that for the Fed.
Are we going to see policy simply hold
steady or are we going to reintroduce
the whole notion of a transitory impact
or is the Fed actively considering a
reversal in the course of policy?
>> On Powell's future, I'm not particularly
interested whether he stays on or
leaves. Good for him, it's his life,
it's his career. I'm sure he's earned
his retirement, go for it. If he stays,
whatever. What interests me is why he
would choose to stay.
And the way he's framing this right now
is a defense of central bank
independence at a time where there seems
to be no concern about central bank
independence in the price of inflation
expectations. I know plenty of
economists are concerned, I understand
why, but right now the market's not. I
hate to do either or's, but someone's
wrong here. Either Chairman Powell's
wrong, or inflation expectations have
got this wrong. Is it one or the other?
>> Well, I have to say that I was a little
concerned about the Warsh nomination,
not because he was well known to the
market. He's He's had his years at the
Fed, but because of the change in his
underlying principle. He was previously
an inflation hawk, then he began to
align himself with the administration
calling for a regime change and
significantly lower interest rates. But,
during his testimony, he didn't make the
case for lower interest rates. He
acknowledged the the elevated level of
inflation and the upside risks to
inflation, also the narrow window of
time that the Fed has to rein in
inflation, and at the same time
acknowledging that the employment
picture is pretty much at full
employment. So, he had the opportunity
to make the case for lower rates. He
didn't, which suggests that he may be
more of a neutral, more moderate Fed
official than we're giving him credit
for. We'll see. We'll see what happens
tomorrow afternoon. Lindsey, it's good
to see you. Thank you. Thank you.
Lindsey Pieksa there of State Folk.
Equity futures near session lows. Let's
give you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
You Hirah has more. Hey, Hirah. Hi,
John.
>> [snorts]
>> The UAE is officially exiting OPEC and
OPEC plus starting May 1st. The
bombshell move is aimed at seizing
control of the UAE's energy futures.
State-run news agency WAM [music]
reporting the shift will allow for a
gradual domestic production boost to
meet surging [music]
global demand.
Meta is preparing to unwind its
acquisition of the AI startup Manas
after China banned the transaction on
national [music] security grounds. The
Wall Street Journal reporting that
Beijing gave the companies a deadline of
2 weeks to fully restore Manas's Chinese
assets to their original state.
And key Republican senators are pushing
to use federal [music] funds for the
construction of a White House Ballroom.
The senators are citing increased
threats following [music] Saturday night
Saturday's shooting at the White House
Correspondents Dinner. The construction
project is expected to cost $400 [music]
million.
That's your Bloomberg Brief, John.
>> Yeah, Hannah. Thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Ben Reiter
of Manulife Research with concerns
growing over the future of Open AI.
Equity futures [music] -0.7%.
The AI narrative, the stocks did
stumble, but that is very much intact.
In other words, the capital spending is
higher, their earnings are strong,
adoption is increasing, and the
expectation is that the
spending on AI will broaden one [music]
way or the other. The point is that the
market remains dependent on tech and and
there the strength is is intact. That
was Venu Krishna of Barclays on the
program a little bit earlier. We'll see
if this dip [music] gets bought because
we've got a dip this morning. Equity
futures on the Nasdaq down by 1.2%. JP
Morgan have said use any market weakness
to add to positions. Bank of America
have said pullbacks are likely to be
shallow.
This is your pullback.
>> [music]
>> There's some single names that are
pulling back quite a lot in the
premarket that connected to this Wall
Street Journal report. This indicating
that Open AI is falling short of its own
growth targets. Getting caught up in
that, Oracle, CoreWeave. CoreWeave
actually responding to this. That stock
is down in in premarket by close to 8%
>> [music]
>> and they're pushing back.
>> Yeah, they're sending out an email
statement coming out and saying that
their business is supported by a diverse
set of customers. Open AI is a terrific
partner, not the only one. Again, the
emphasis being on Open AI not being
their sole business partner. We've seen
this from others as well. Microsoft
amending the agreement with Open AI to
be less exclusive. CoreWeave [music]
though, much more dependent on Open AI
for a lot of the business and has been
raising debt recently. I mean, this has
has a debt component too to finance the
buildout that is tied to Open AI demand.
Again, it all goes to the question of
how much is [music] Open AI at the
center of an ecosystem that is built out
incredibly rapidly to [music] meet
demand that seemed insatiable.
>> CoreWeave, we continue to see demand
exceed supply across
the ecosystem. That's the pushback from
that company [music]
so far this morning. That's not the only
story driving stocks lower this morning.
Also this in the commodity market. Brent
up for a seventh consecutive session up
by 2.6% 111 was around 112. The oil
market picking up once again. WTI
briefly in triple digits 9960
and a bit of a headline out of the
Middle East in the last [music] hour or
something on OPEC plus UAE
heading to the exit. [music]
After decades of being part of the
cartel and a very prominent member in
the group is deciding to leave.
>> [music]
>> I am not shocked at all that by this
decision cuz this has been really a long
time coming. What is a little bit more
surprising though they decided to make
this announcement in the middle of a
conflict. And I think this just goes to
show how fragmented the Gulf is right
now. Is that the end of the cartel?
Questions being asked. I think [music]
it means on the margins potentially yes
cuz why won't other nations decide they
also want to chart their own future.
What means that Iraq and who won't who
knows other countries Oman, [music]
Algeria decide, you know what, I'm done
with this. I'm also going to leave.
That's the latest on crude on OPEC this
morning. Our top story. The Wall Street
Journal reporting OpenAI failed to meet
its own goals for new user acquisition
and sales. The report fueling fears over
AI spending and weighing on tech, on
CoreWeave, on Oracle. Ben Reitzes of
Melius Research joins us now for more.
Ben, good morning, sir. It's good to see
you. What was your reaction when you
read that in the Journal this morning? I
thought it was a hit piece, really. It
was uh
very negative. Um Sam's a little
polarizing to some and it it was very
seemed very pointed to the
>> it was personal?
Uh you never know. It was um it was a
very pointed piece that uh some of it
wasn't even really to us new news. I
mean um they they have definitely slowed
their user growth. That's very well
known. And it was sort of glass half
full because you can't really talk about
OpenAI without talking about Anthropic
and some of the others and Anthropic's
crushing it. So net net uh AI spend is
is through the roof. Uh and this is
probably a buy on the dip opportunity. A
buy on the dip of of what this morning?
CoreWeave, anything getting pulled in
up? Oracle?
>> Everything. Everything getting hit,
really. I mean, look, Oracle doesn't
generate any cash. I could see why you'd
get more upset about Oracle, but I'm I'm
more uh focused on the chips and some of
the hardware names and whatnot that can
balance things um throughout a bunch of
clouds. I mean, I get why Oracle would
be down because they don't generate any
cash and they are very levered to uh
specific projects with OpenAI and if
they don't win, Oracle doesn't win. Uh
CoreWeave seems a little overdone
because they have a very diverse
customer set. Well, at a certain point,
there is a question of just how far
valuations have gone. It isn't just a
question of buy a dip. The dip is 2% on
Nvidia, less than that after a one and a
quarter trillion-dollar rally over the
past four weeks. It's not exactly as
though we're talking about a massive
dip. I I how do you justify that the
pace of growth has been adequately
reflected by how far the rally has taken
us?
Well, I mean, you've got to take a step
back and where we're going with AI. AI
is generally a soft an AI factory is
really a software factory that tokenizes
labor. You could argue that labor TAM is
$60 trillion when you put white collar
plus physical labor and we're just
scratching the surface on that. Now, not
all labor will be replaced, but it will
be augmented. The labor TAM probably
goes up. Uh and that's what we're
attacking here big picture
uh and we're in inning one of that. So,
uh this build-out needs to continue and
it will continue and and economies
[clears throat]
are in a race to do it and the and
there's really an arms race between the
US and China. So,
uh we're not slowing down just because
of a negative article in the Wall Street
Journal about a polarizing figure. What
would you have to see in earnings
tomorrow after the bell that would make
you rethink that?
Well, there's a lot of earnings. So,
which which ones? The the CapEx is
really the key is that um of all the
major hyperscalers, uh
you know, there's Microsoft, there's
Amazon, there's Google are are the big
three. Uh I think all um I I wouldn't I
would I think the CapEx figure is what
you got to be laser focused on and I
think that um
Google and Amazon may not have upside
this quarter to their forecast for the
year, but the one who should raise
CapEx, who needs to the most, is
Microsoft. They've been behind in terms
of adding capacity. They have the least
amount of upside to their cloud revenues
and they also have to train a brand new
frontier model that they're working on
because their OpenAI partnership isn't
working out because OpenAI wants to go
it alone. And so,
um that'll be interesting, but I think
the the in general, the CapEx news will
be positive and that the hyperscalers
will articulate a vision that AI has a
payoff coming down the line and we
should see huge upside coming to the
clouds especially at Google and Amazon
cuz they have the capacity. It's not a
good week for Open AI. I know you don't
particularly like the Wall Street
Journal story but also he'll be in court
and he's getting sued by Elon Musk is
all over Twitter calling him scam
Altman. Do you think any of this is
going to hurt their IPO prospect?
Doesn't help but you'd like to have a
positive narrative coming out. I mean
you've seen the CFO all over. She's been
doing a lot of
public appearances but they just put out
a great model. I I think look you know
there these articles and these
narratives blah blah but at the end of
the day they put out a great model.
The model is very capable. Their coding
revenue is growing. We need to know how
much and we need to know how much the
mix is shifting towards enterprise from
consumer. And if enterprises are willing
to adopt them versus Claude or even both
and how that's going and we need to also
see what the gross margin projections
are going to look like. So there's a
better narrative around Anthropic these
days in general because of their
enterprise
focus because a lot of there just seems
to be more anecdotal stories about wow I
adopted Claude and oh my god my work has
gotten so much better and all that and
there's definitely a lot more of that
but there's a very capable model that
just came out from Open AI and Spud and
it's it's awesome and we'll see and
Nvidia trained that thing and we'll have
to see how it goes. The sometimes the
models
you know tell the story not the media.
Ben it's good to see you. Yeah great to
see you thank you. And Rice is there
from Melius Research. The PR around one
company is a little bit better than the
other at the moment. Well yeah
Anthropic's had better PR and this
certainly was underpinning this recent
article. Can And change everything? Spud
versus Claude. I can just imagine the
Super Bowl at the present.
>> Big afternoon coming up tomorrow
afternoon. Tons of earnings. We'll break
things down with George Goncalves of
MUFG, Angelo Zino of CFRA. We'll speak
to the OceanFirst CEO, Chris Maher, and
the former Kansas City Fed President,
Esther George, heading into tomorrow
afternoon's [music] Fed decision. From
New York City this morning, good
morning. Thank you for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.